When he learned what was causing the commotion he
became greatly alarmed, and after the body had been
taken to St Thomas's Hospital it was his
grief-stricken duty formally to identify Elizabeth
Camp, aged thirty-three, the girl who was to have
been his bride. There was little doubt of how
she had met her death, and even less that it
Or when he found cock-fighting going on in church?
Laud made a positive approach. He set out to increase
a sense of reverence. The Prayer Book was to be respected
and so was the office of a bishop. Altars should be
altars and not any broken down, transportable
table which was handy for the most improbable uses.
That's as bloody silly as calling a Rolls-
Royce a type of transport. She's the
flower in a cultural desert. "Now, me - I'm
a journalist, I write to entertain rather
than educate. And I don't write at all
unless I'm exceedingly 2skint. "But I'll
say this. I'd like to live in America
and do some writing there.
While these may ultimately be made into a picture
for framing and hanging on a wall, they may
also be arranged into a design, and the
resulting panel utilized for decorating a useful
Then he tried it out for sound. Um-chink...
um-chink... it went. Slightly flat and jangly in
part. DELIGHTFUL! He put the sound on tape. The
tape went to the Philips company. Within two
days Mr. Lisbon had a record contract. And they
hauled his thumb-tacked joanna the thirteen
miles to London for his first session.
It was very interesting to have the privilege of filling
such a beautiful building with suitable fittings; I made
a rule that all gifts should be submitted for approval to
the architect, himself a fine artist. It is quite possible
to put beautiful things into a beautiful church
and yet spoil the building with ornaments unsui-
PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get
tough over West Germany's cash offer to
help America's balance of payments position
He said bluntly in Washington yesterday
that the offer - 357million - was not good
enough. And he indicated that his
Government would try to get Germany to
pay more. He did not mention personal
talks with Dr. Adenauer, the West
And so the inquest, which had dragged on, with
adjournments, until April 7, finally had to be content to return
a verdict of "wilful murder against some person or
persons unknown." The most vital clue of the Wedgwood
pestle had been of no assistance. The killer must
have been very thankful that the science of
dactyloscopy was only in its beginnings.
A pleasant life truly!... It so happens that I have
an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de
Chambre that ever was. But he has not one word
of English.' While he was writing this letter he
heard of the fall of the Whigs, and the temporary
assumption of the government by the Duke of
When Mr. Brown sat down Labour M Ps
cheered for a full minute - and even his
bitterest opponents on defence joined in.
Mr. Powell devoted half his speech to giving
details of plans for improving the hospital
service, on which indeed the Government is
making progress. His basic defence of the
Health Service cuts was that "even after
the proposed changes the net cost of the
service to the Exchequer will have increased
over three years by 20 per cent.
Mr. William Lucas (Morris) is always insen-
sitively pushing, Miss Sheila Allen his wife,
always palely appealing, Mr. James Maxwell,
the editor, always comically abashed by
the events, and Mr. Aubrey Richards, the
father-in-law, always comically grotesque;
they were not asked to modulate from
their set moods but played with proper
efficiency and, in the case of Mr. Richards,
with lavish and suitably gaudy colour.
It has been left, however, to Mr. Goka, Ghana's Finance
Minister, to do the honours as host, in which capacity
he held a reception tonight in Accra's Ambassador
Hotel. POLICE, on direct orders from the Cabinet, are
openly intimidating members of Earl Russell's nuclear-
disarming Committee of 100, the Committee claimed
yesterday. It said pressure was being put on
members and associates all over the country.
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law,
the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby, had written to
advise Anglesey to give the system a trial, adding
that it was being cultivated with extraordinary
success in France and Italy, and that he
himself was being treated under a doctor who
had studied under its founder, the aged
The Bow-wave Theory. This assumes
that all fishing gear, when moving,
sends before it a kind of scaring effect,
probably through waves or vibrations in
the water or along the ground.
Underwater films suggest that the
footrope of a trawl does this. Films
have also shown plaice moving before
a seine net in just the same way after
being gathered inwards by the ropes.
Cecil frowned in disappointment as he focussed upon the
printing to find no Govr., no Compa., in fact no five pound notes
at all. He was holding a paper booklet, the top sheet of which
bore, in large Baskerville type, the words METROPOLITAN
MONOTECHNIC INSTITUTE ADVANCED ACCOUNTANCY
COURSE NO. 3. He ruffled the sheets irritably and
glowered at his own breach of social morality.
They are slightly more difficult to
manage, however, until a little experience
has been gained with them. Plastic pots
are usually more expensive than clay ones,
but they are almost indestructible and
will last a long time with normal care.
God grant, however, that I may be a false prophet
&; that all may go well. Sir R. Peel was here, I understand,
but an express took him off yesterday.'
While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter
in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an
effective alleviation of his painful malady. None of the
numerous conventional remedies to which he had been
subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown
themselves seventeen years before had had the
Having trimmed up the chines, we are now ready
to plank the sides. Start again at the bows,
clamping into position with a 'D' clamp. Bend
round the frame to the stern and clamp there. If
you have a third clamp use it in the centre as
well. After generously covering with glue, screw
the sides to the transom framing and the chine.
King Freddie and three other hereditary rulers of
native kingdoms in Uganda arrived for talks with
Colonial Secretary Mr. Iain Macleod, before the
Uganda Constitutional conference opens next Monday.
The question: Their status in an independent Uganda.
The thorniest problem for next week's conference is
to settle the relationships between them and the
rest of the country. A Government report has
recognised their rights and recommended a form of
federal association, but the four kings are not
They mostly occurred in lonely farm-houses.
Monsieur H, for instance, had been clubbed and
throttled to death by his wife, children and
father-in-law, after muddling up some sheep
while the worse for drink. The family
group then sat down for a late lunch
before the father-in-law telephoned the police.
Then again, Monsieur V, owing to family
troubles, had written to the local
paper and the superintendent of police,
informing them that he was on the point
Its terms have set the Prime Minister an exacting
problem. Mr. Sandys has warned of the risk of a
strong reaction from Sir Roy Welensky to any
suggestion that there may be fresh concessions to the
African nationalists. Mr. Macleod has ample evidence
from talks with Sir John Moffat, Northern Rhodesian
Liberal leader, and Mr. Kaunda, that the bulk
of moderates and Africans will reject the
Constitution unless it is modified.
Yesterday West German Defence Minister,
Herr Strauss, started talks with the British
Defence Minister, Mr. Watkinson. Their talks
are another stage in the cloak operation,
1961 variety, by which the West German
militarists are advancing their rearmament.
Herr Strauss told the Daily Mail last October
that his policy was to make his country
the "strongest militarily in Europe and the
United States' principal Nato ally."
A great deal of modern furniture has tapered
legs, and in reproduction period pieces they
are frequently used. The simpler varieties are
extremely easy to work, the four sides being
simply planed to give the required taper. In
the more elaborate varieties, however, a toe is
worked in the solid, and this certainly
complicates the operation.
Mr. Macleod thought the two Rhodesian parties
had refused to attend the talks because Sir Roy
had found messages sent from the Government were
"unsatisfactory." African delegates to the talks yesterday
called on Mr. Macmillan to cease his negotiations with
Sir Roy's representative, Mr. Julius Greenfield. He was
at Chequers last week-end. They said they regarded
with "growing anger" the gross and unconstitutional"
interference by Sir Roy's Federal Government in the talks.
When the sailing season was past, he sent Pearl
back to England, and returned to Rome for
the winter. In late November, he was 'suffering
as usual', but hoped, he told Arthur, 'to find
this place agree with me better than Naples.
The journey has been against me, as there
has been much rain and damp, but the
temperature is high & I have not yet
It is not our purpose to discuss this dictum.
Suffice to say that few of us stop to marvel at
the progress of civilisation which allows a dish
borrowed straight from the prehistoric. How
many centuries ago, in some cave or hilly
hide, did our forebears home from the chase
hold forth from a spear the welcome gobbet of
meat or fish burnt and roasted in the
homely and protecting flame.
ON a March evening in 1932 in the New
Jersey family household the nursemaid
tiptoed into the baby's room to see that
20-month-old Charles Jun. was sleeping.
Bending over the cot, she suddenly realised
that there was no sound of breathing.
She thrust out her hand - and felt
emptiness. A FEW minutes later the father
gripping a loaded rifle, told his wife:
A natural transition from gardens and
orchards to the vital question of water
supply. The pools are probably natural springs
enlarged to become reservoirs or cisterns in
the rock. King Mesha of Moab boasts of their
construction in lines 9, 23-25 of the Moabite Stone,
which read: And I built Baal-meon and made
in it the reservoir... and I made both the
reservoirs for water inside the town.
In some of the elegant boutiques of Paris
hand-crocheted blouses, gossamer fine in
texture, are sold at a very high price. With a
little time and concentration the woman at home can
produce fashion articles as elegant as those of
Paris - a blouse, delicate gloves or a fine
edging for collar, cuffs or a handkerchief.
A pleasant life truly!... It so happens that I have an Italian
who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was. But
he has not one word of English.' While he was writing this
letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs, and the temporary
assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington.
A MOVE to stop Mr. Gaitskell from nominating
any more Labour life Peers is to be made at a
meeting of Labour 0M Ps tomorrow. Mr. Michael
Foot has put down a resolution on the subject
and he is to be backed by Mr. Will Griffiths,
0M P for Manchester Exchange.
A pleasant life truly!... It so happens that I have
an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre
that ever was. But he has not one word of English.'
While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall
of the Whigs, and the temporary assumption of the
government by the Duke of Wellington.
CONTRAST his firm, successful rule in Rhodesia
with what has happened in the Congo. There
Welensky's opponents have carried their theories
into practice. There a UNO army of Africans,
bossed by an Indian, has been in charge for
months. And what has it made of the Congo?
A bloodstained shambles. No wonder
Welensky has lost all patience with his
An attempt to get more information about the
Admiralty House meeting will be made in the
House of Commons this afternoon. Labour M.P.s already
have many questions to the Prime Minister asking
for a statement. President Kennedy flew from London
Airport last night to arrive in Washington this
morning. He is to make a 30-minute nation-wide
broadcast and television report on his
talks with Mr. Krushchov this evening.
By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples.
He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his
health permitted him to enjoy anything. 'The Pearl', he
wrote, 'is arrived, which is a great resource. Vesuvius
seems to be tired; he is going out fast.... What a gay,
lively people, and what a busy town. At Rome, every other
man was a priest: here the priest is 1superceded by
the soldier - a favourable change in my eye, particularly
Senator Allen Ellender of Louisiana sparked
off the opposition by telling a television
audience it was "current Washington gossip"
that Weaver once had Communist affiliations.
The Senate Banking Committee, which is headed
by another Southern Senator - Willis Robertson,
of Virginia - met today in closed session
to discuss Weaver's appointment. Senator
Robertson later disclosed he had sent a letter
to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received several
complaints about Weaver's loyalty.
But there is heart in the telling, and an
intense realism in the situation. A young
girl lives in a single dingy room with
her slatternly, promiscuous mother. In such
surroundings she learns sex is something
sordid, and when she experiences it for
the first time herself it is incoherently, clumsily,
but half shyly and half inquisitively. As
is the case in Fanny her first lover is a sailor
who leaves her to bear his child and sails
And we want all to eat and drink His Great Philosophy of the
four ways of Israel's redemption. Hence "four questions", which are
really interrogations to examine into the principles of the four re-
demptions are asked at the Seder-evening about these "four
symbols" (the MANISHTANO). And the person who asks these
questions is seeking the opinion of the one who is
HOW the Government must repent its haste and folly
in Rhodesia! Eighteen months ago this territory
was peaceful, orderly, and thriving. Africans within the
Federal Government were getting valuable experience in
administration. Then Mr. Iain Macleod became Colonial
Secretary. Suddenly everything changed. Timetables were
scrapped. The ill-conceived Monckton Commission was
rushed out to Rhodesia. Overnight, minor African
politicians were inflated into international figures.
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
master at Ko"then, near Leipzig, asking for
advice. In doing so he described his distinguished
patient and his symptoms. He told Hahnemann
that he found Anglesey a strong, energetic man
with a gentle and charming character,
even-tempered and sedate, not easily irritated,
patient and persevering, 'but he appears to
despair of ever being cured.'
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir Francis
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two
later as 'more like a God upon earth than
a human being', had an increasing number
of disciples among unorthodox medical men
in the cities of Europe. One of these
was the Neapolitan, Dr Giuseppe Mauro,
whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834.
The notification he envisages must be given at least two days before the
agreement is signed. To this there will be some opposition. The Bill is
short and modest in scope, and it is doubtful whether the other Private
Members' Bills in the offing will fill all the gaps. This fact may give
the Government an extra excuse for counselling patience until the
But there is heart in the telling, and an
intense realism in the situation. A young
girl lives in a single dingy room with
her slatternly, promiscuous mother. In such
surroundings she learns sex is something
sordid, and when she experiences it for the
first time herself it is incoherently, clumsily,
but half inquisitively. As is the case in Fanny
her first lover is a sailor who leaves her
to bear his child and sails away.
"After a lifetime of helping others and
healing the sick, my considered opinion is that
anybody supporting the increased charges is a
wicked, old -." Mr. Brown went on: "We
are dealing with a noble edifice which
needs an imaginative architect to improve
it, but it has got a quantity surveyor. We
have descended from the real problems to
fiddling about with bills of cost.
Yes. I'm afraid we couldn't raise this loan to more
than three thousand three fifty at the most. Now you
could get quite a nice little semi-detached house in
Grimstead for three thousand, that's where I live, just
before the green belt, lovely and modern, you know.
I forgot to tell you, we don't usually lend any
house built earlier than 1918."
5. Other forms of war damage payment made by the Commission
are highway payments, clearance payments (for clearing remains of
structures from "total loss" sites) and church payments. Although
differing in certain important ways from the ordinary cost of
works payments, the sums paid under these heads have the
common feature that they are all payments in respect of works
He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's
alleged association with organisations black-
listed by the Government. Immediately Mr.
Kennedy rushed a letter to Senator Robertson
saying the Federal Bureau of Investigation had
reported on Mr. Weaver. He believed
he would perform "outstanding service"
in his post. Senator Robertson's committee
has to pass Mr. Weaver's nomination before it
can be considered by the full Senate.
Indeed, for the next seventeen years, during my time at
Purley, and from 1922 at Surbiton, I was continuously
Chairman of the local War Pensions Committee. This
task involved a very great deal of detailed work for
the Committee. We had a splendid body of local residents,
and a series of excellent Honorary Secretaries. Our
Committee met once a week in the evenings, and
included professional men from every walk of
On the other hand, Mr. Pearson excels
in meeting people informally, but many
still regard him "as some sort of cross
between an egghead and a missionary".
His party advisers are now trying to
correct that image. The bow tie has
gone; he is having lessons on
television techniques and is being coached
The village green is the real home of cricket. A couple of bumps
on a pitch have no terrors for a good batsman with a stout
heart, a firm grip on the willow and a hefty contempt for
batting averages and all the statistical blight that makes a
mighty six these days as rare as frostbite in summer.
HOW do you get on records? Well, you've got
to have something different. Sing slightly flat.
All the good singers sing in tune. Twang a guitar
slightly off key. Everybody's fed up with the
right way - so the best-seller charts say. Play
an OLD 2pianna instead of a new one. You got to
get it into your head, son... people
don't like things as they should be - not on
You are out of date. Cricket in 1961 is played
with a theodolite, six surveyors, a ball;
bats and wickets between two sides. Shades
of the village stalwarts of Hambledon who
are now the patron saints of the game!
What would THEY have thought of
these civil engineers creeping about
the pitch with their optical
A pleasant life truly!... It so happens that I have an Italian
who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was. But he
has not one word of English.' While he was writing this letter he
heard of the fall of the Whigs, and the temporary assumption
of the government by the Duke of Wellington.
This could hardly happen without the
herring having some orientation with the
sea bottom. It means that the crowding
is caused during the daytime, and that
the herring must continue to migrate over
the ground as well as in midwater and
during the swim (the swim at East Anglia
is always from the north).
You see, it was, apparently, through a mistake
on Guy's part that we missed seeing the
flamingoes our first morning on the island."
"What harm could possibly have come to Forrest
through Sir John's nonsense?" Piers could
hardly have spoken with more contempt.
A bully like that respects anyone who
dares to stand up to him."
To be able to say "New York next week" is an
important advance. We must not be overconfident
that this # meeting will lead on to further
and decisive ones; but without it, we could not
look for them. Federal Germany votes tomorrow
and not a day too soon. There can seldom have
been an election campaign which more people
in and out of the country wanted to see over
MR. GAITSKELL today delivered a full-blooded
defence of the Polaris missile base. And by
implication he supported the establishment of
sites in Britain for the training of German
troops. His main theme was that nuclear
weapons were necessary to defend Britain, that
Britain must depend on Nato and "the West"
must have nuclear weapons so long as the
They'll be clapping the man who plays a straight theodolite next.
EICHMANN continues # to reveal the extraordinary divisions of the
German mind. Not content with arguing that he was only an
efficient cog in the machine, he now claims that part of the
endless massacre that led to the death of six million Jews was
I am more than conscious of this. How anybody
can go through the same routine day in and day
out for forty years I find difficult to understand.
A lot of it is inevitable so that industry and
commerce may be kept going - though if ever
it becomes possible to work out a system
of 'staggered' hours it may do an immense
amount of good over and above relieving
the pressure on over-crowded trains.
Then we went to work on Coleridge Taylor's 'Hiawatha's
Wedding Feast.' Enthusiasm grew, and in a few more months we
gave a concert at which the accompanist was the village schoolmaster,
and the tenor solo 'Onaway awake' was sung by the Rector.
Friends from Limpsfield, in addition to the villagers, came up,
This is not a filmed play. It has been conceived
throughout in terms of the cinema, and again and
again it is the visual qualities of the story, and
the marriage of the central characters to their
background, which bring the film so vividly to life.
In Fanny, which also has its premiere tomorrow,
the director, Mr. Joshua Logan, attempted but failed
to create the atmosphere of a city.
Under the Labour Government 18.1 per cent of the
national income was spent on social services. The
present figure is 19.5 per cent. There are many
worthwhile targets for the Opposition. What a pity
to aim at the wrong one! MRS. MARCIA POWER,
whose husband made her clean his uniform, wins
a divorce. The judge says she had to act almost
Soil blocks are probably the oldest alternative to clay
pots for plant raising. These are compressed blocks of
compost, made in a specially devised press to
simulate roughly the shape and size of a pot.
Usually cylindrical or hexagonal in shape, they
are made of the same compost as would have
been used in a pot, the # only difference being
that it is used in a slightly moister
Mr. Thorneycroft, the Minister of Aviation, who arrives in
Bonn tomorrow for talks with the Federal Government on a
European space satellite project, will find the Germans
interested in the principle of space research, but rather
sceptical about British plans for organizing it.
Stated more bluntly, they are still unconvinced that
this is not primarily an effort on Britain's part to
salve Blue Streak, which was abandoned last summer
as a military project; or that the European space satellite
is indeed to be purely scientific in character.
All recent events show how correct the
Scarborough decisions were. The Kennedy
Administration's sharpened policies, the
speeded-up drive to improve West
Germany's armament, the new attempt
to rush Britain into the European Common
Market, and the kite-flying on Spain
present a whole new proof that to abandon
Scarborough is to expose Britain and her
working class to sharp new dangers - that
Gaitskellism is bankrupt.
'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble! What infa-
tuation! Personally I am indifferent, but I really tremble
for my country! I may be mistaken, 1tho' I cannot
but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so
great at the return of Ultratoryism, that the Commons
House upon a dissolution, which must be had, will be a
mass of Radicalism, & then God knows what may happen....
The second reason is concerned with doubts
as to the safety of the people of Great Britain;
"in the time of crisis it would probably be
impossible for the British authorities to
exercise any degree of control over the action
of Polaris submarines." He argues that
there is a distinct possibility that so long
as there is a Polaris base in Britain the
Soviet Union might retaliate against
Sir Roy Welensky said today that he no
longer accepted the good faith of Mr. Kenneth
Kaunda. Sir Roy, Federal Rhodesian Prime Minister,
said that Mr. Kaunda's United National Independence
Party was a monster as vicious as the Zambia
National Congress, which was led by Mr. Kaunda
until he was outlawed in 1959. The record
of lawlessness among UNIP supporters went
back a long way, Sir Roy told the
Federal Parliament in Salisbury.
We travelled down to Nice on the Lambretta.
You can free-wheel down a quarter of the
way. In the middle of the journey is a
valley with a sea of vines and olives
and beaches of earth pricked to blood by
the hoe. Rising from the flecked sea are
islands tapering to shipwrecked castles and
towns, grey, rose-headed mariners clinging
like limpets to the rock.
Self-control gives us: Freedom to worship God. (3) Salt Water and Charauses:
the salt-water at the Seder-Table represents the Covenant of the Torah
(MELACH BRITH ELOHECHO in Hebrew, Salt is the covenant of 1thy God,
Levit. 2, 13.) Salt preserves and we should have this salt in
ourselves and have peace with one-another. And the sweet
Mortar (the CHARAUSES in Hebrew) that binds all the "hard-
facts" together and explains them, represents the Oral
We know from the diaries of Samuel Pepys
that he was a great man for lace - paying
as much as 3 for a lace collar. But this
didn't mean he was prepared to do as much
for his lady, for he records testily: 'My wife
and I fell out about my not being willing
to have her gown laced.'
She was tempted to laugh, but it was as though that barb still stuck
in her quivering flesh. "You've an answer - of sorts - for everything," she
said shortly. "Personally I've no more to say, so I suggest we get
along." To her great relief they arrived at the cluster of little houses
where Hubert had been living to find the old man stowing in
leisurely fashion his few possessions into a ramshackle and
incredibly ancient car, surrounded by innumerable friends and relatives.
Oversew crochet to the dc. A household word,
Coats Mercer-Crochet possesses qualities which
are of the utmost importance to the worker.
It washes beautifully, never loses its colour
nor becomes 'stringy', is very elastic and
preserves the beauty of the design. It is easy
to work with, soft, glossy and of uniform
thickness - it is the ideal crochet thread.
Cut out the bottom and sides accurately from the
plan measurements but leave sufficient margin for
planing after fixing to the boat. Use your two
lengths of 8 ft. by 4 ft. ply for this
purpose, the sides from one, and the bottom from
the other. If care is taken not to waste the
ply, plenty of material is left over for the thwarts.
He spent most of his short half-hour on
Berlin. He deplored the possibility of
some "new myth" about betrayal of Germany
by the Allies. "We do not," he said, "really
know what the Russians want." But he was
certain that they wanted to establish a
final and irrevocable division of Germany.
Britain could not be a party to an imposed
division. But negotiation, as the debate had
shown, could be undertaken on a variety
The action of the Shamir writes books and their
books are readable. This Shamir is indeed a rare
diamond that incises the hardest rock, the hardest
facts. And these creatures existed from the
beginning. It is "the stone, which the builders
refused, but it is to become the head-stone
of the corner". (Ps. 118, 22.) And the stone shall
When Scarborough carried our point of view
we were naturally delighted, more so because
the alternatives had been put clearly to the
movement, which had then chosen a vigorous
anti-Nato, anti-Tory, anti-bomb and anti-German
rearmament policy. Hopes rose as we saw a
perspective of sharp struggle based on consistent
lines of difference with the Tories. Many members
understood that the bread-and-butter struggles
of the union would become easier in the context
Foodlore reflects much more of national temperament
than is customarily imagined as well as entering human
activities to a greater extent than is usually assumed.
We naturally cannot overlook that Magyar cookery owes
one of its most classic features to the Turkish rule under
which the Hungarians groaned for nearly 200 years.
If that country had not been for so long a battlefield red
with the blood shed to defend Christian civilisation,
Hungary would have been deprived of the condiment which
provides many Magyar dishes with a vivid and brilliant
The film replaced "What's My Line?" and "Be My
Guest" programmes because of an electricians'
strike. It showed Britain today through the eyes
of an American T V reporter, Eric Sevareid, and
British personalities. Among them - Professor
Dennis Brogan, Shelagh Delaney, and Alan Sillitoe.
The film covered a wide aspect of the British
scene, ranging from pubs, the Eton wall game,
to the European Common Market.
MR. Macmillan has picked a strong "brains trust"
team to negotiate terms for joining the Common Market.
And he has abandoned plans to visit President de
Gaulle this month to smooth the way. General
de Gaulle's official welcome last week
to Britain's moves towards the Six was
taken as a friendly gesture in Whitehall,
but no more than that.
Powerful units have stood firm.
In unions where the central issues
were confused, clear policy details -
as on bases - were decisively carried.
This, and the numbers of active
workers who are beginning to understand
how and why the trick was done,
provides a strong, immediate basis
for a campaign against weak and
doubtful positions, and for a consistent
Fix on the gunwales and insert the thwarts (seats)
taking care to reinforce the sides of the dinghy at the seats
with vertical members as shown in the plans. Make the
four blocks for the rowlocks and mark their positions
before riveting on the gunwales so that you do not put
a rivet where you will have to cut out the inside (gunwale)
This sort of situation calls for some subtle,
slightly sardonic handling. It doesn't get it. But
The Marriage-Go-Round is not entirely a waste of
time. I learned from it that in the Institutes of Advanced
Studies attached to some American universities
the subject Social Psychology used to be called
Home-making and is now known as Domestic
NEXT month that friendly, effervescent performer Frankie
Vaughan will burst on to the London Palladium stage
in a new show. To paraphrase his well-known ditty:
"He'll have the limelight, they'll give him the girls -
Cecil stepped towards the dining room. 'I'm
sure you must be tired,' his mother insisted.
'You're very irritable, anyway.' 'I'm NOT tired
and I'm NOT irritable.' 'Very well then.' His
mother nodded with understanding. 'You're not tired.
Nobody's tired. Now just you run along
upstairs and wash your hands whilst I get
It would become easy to become cynical and
to despair. And yet, wherever the issues were put
clearly, sections of the movement reaffirmed their
original stand. Only where the issues were
posed so as to cause doubt and confusion
were positions lost. It is my view that this
immediate confusion hides the fact that the
Peace movement is still advancing and that
clarification of the issues can bring a
majority to # secure the Scarborough
This was too reminiscent of the nursemaid
and her illegitimate baby. For the most
part, Mr. Godber muttered his way
through a cliche-ridden Foreign Office
brief. He resembles the elephant seal, an
# otherwise endearing creature whose
articulation is limited, we are told, to a
series of heavy sighs. Sir Lynn Ungoed-
Thomas, M.P. for Leicester N.E., a former
Labour Solicitor-General, and Mrs. Barbara
The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's play A
Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester Square Theatre
tomorrow. It has been produced and directed by
Mr. Tony Richardson, who is also part-author with
Miss Delaney of the script, and the great advantages
to be derived from this unity of conception and control
When the sailing season was past, he sent Pearl
back to England, and returned to Rome for
the winter. In late November, he was 'suffering as
usual', but hoped, he told Arthur, 'to find this
place agree with me better than Naples. The journey
has been against me, as there has been much rain and
damp, but the temperature is high & I have not yet
Decide on the required angle of slope,
keeping B flat on the chair seat, and mark
off the exact position of B on the side
pieces. These can then be cut at the correct
angle and B is glued and nailed in place.
A piece of hardboard is then cut and pinned
to the frame and its edges planed off
Lucky indeed are the families that
possess a heritage of lace. A lace
bridal veil handed down from mother
to daughters, a lace-trimmed Christening
robe that each generation wears in turn -
these are proud possessions, linked to the
exquisite lace-making of the past.
The press and the broadcasting authorities are
asked to help. To begin with, both tempe-
ratures will be put in the ring together.
SIR GRAHAM SUTTON, however, made no bones
about it yesterday. The purpose is to give
fahrenheit the knock out. The backers of
centigrade would have got off to a better
start if they had taken more pains to
explain the advantages to the general
A correspondent who travelled yesterday to within
a few miles of Vang Vieng was told by officers that
this village was still held by the pro-communists.
With the Prime Minister sunning himself in Jamaica
and # his Cabinet out in the grass roots making
160 speeches in 80 constituencies in 10 days, the Liberal
Party are holding a national conference here with
some 2,000 delegates, the biggest gathering since 1958
when Mr. Lester Pearson was chosen as party
Nevertheless, average net family income
was appreciably higher in families with
several children than in those with only,
many of which were incomplete families
of younger parents with lower earnings,
and of course with lower tax reliefs and
no family allowances. The rise in net family
incomes between 1954 and 1959 was great-
est for childless couples, especially older
couples (probably because of the
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law,
the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby, had written to advise
Anglesey to give the system a trial, adding that it was
being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and
Italy, and that he himself was being treated under a
doctor who had studied under its founder, the aged
God grant, however, that I may be a false prophet &;
that all may go well. Sir R. Peel was here, I under-
stand, but an express took him off yesterday.'
While he was in Naples there had opened a
new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing
search for an effective alleviation of his painful
malady. None of the numerous conventional remedies
to which he had been subjected ever since the symp-
toms had first shown themselves seventeen years before
But that's a terrible way to begin! Why tell them you
are a novice? It's their interest you want - not their
sympathy. And you want to get it from the word
GO! Try something like this: It is said that tele-
vision keeps people at home. But you, at any
rate, have proved that wrong. And they say, too,
that television makes its appeal to those of lesser
"You think you could have carried more weight
with Sir John?" she enquired cuttingly.
"For all your good opinion of yourself,
I doubt it. He's about as easy to push around
as - as a grounded whale!" He had to smile
at that, but went on airily, "I'd have made
an attempt to show my lady-love that I
put her interests before my own.
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even today, in the 1960s,
no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux. As early as
1830, when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death,
the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been
"We believe that a comprehensive medical
service, free to the patient at the point
of need and with one standard for all
sick people, is good and attainable.
"We remain for it. But the Tories
never were." Interrupted by angry Tories,
Mr. Brown retorted: "The jackals bay
when there is nothing better they can do."
It is true that SIR GRAHAM said there is
at the moment "an awful mess up" in
the measurement of temperatures. This,
however, seems a matter of the convenience
of specialists. The ordinary British man
and woman is conscious of no difficulty.
Rather than fifty million people having
to be put out for the sake of 50,000 is there
any reason why the centigrade countries
should not change to fahrenheit?
Incidentally, it is better to
complete any mortising that may be
needed at the top before the tapering is
begun. Some plain tapered legs have
the taper on the two inner faces only,
the outer surfaces being vertical as
at (B), Fig. 1. To make a leg such as
that at (D), Fig. 1, the square is first
marked out as at (A), Fig. 3.
In the train going back to London I sat
beside # Catherine. She had the stories open
in front of her, but she said: 'Philip's awfully lucky.
I wish I went to that school. Did you notice
that girl who said hullo to him in the garden?
1. Grasp thread near end between thumb
and forefinger. 2. Make a loop by
lapping long thread over short thread.
3. Hold loop in place between thumb
and forefinger (Fig. 1). 1. Take hold
of broad bar of hook as you would a
pencil. Bring middle finger forward to
A pleasant life truly!... It so happens that
I have an Italian who is perhaps the best
Valet de Chambre that ever was. But he
has not one word of English.' While he was
writing this letter he heard of the fall of
the Whigs, and the temporary assumption of
the government by the Duke of Wellington.
That's rather the point, isn't it?" "No, but I mean -"
"I know what you mean. You may trust me, Mrs.
Buttery. I think, however, that you might have
to revise your ideas about - er - the type of
property you intend to purchase." She revised
them. The little man from the Inter-Insular
(British Archipelago) Insurance Company soon
"I drew a certain solace from the fact that I did what I
could despite my low rank." Eichmann is on dangerous ground
when he pleads that he was only a small unit on the base
of the triangle that led to Hitler, Himmler, Hess and Goering
at the apex. In examination he betrayed an expert and
intimate knowledge of every link in the chain of command that
The plain, sober manner of its
style all the more tellingly
points up not only the horror
of the case itself, which
floundered on to the electrocution
four years later of a German-
born Bronx carpenter named
Bruno Richard Hauptmann, but
to the raree-show emotionalism
and sensation-hunger of that
Such a policy would unite the whole movement
and lay the basis for the defeat of the
present Tory Government, which has become a
real menace to the British people both in
home and foreign policy. It is quite evident
that the movement will go on record against
the Polaris base and facilities for German bases
The stores had been hit by the same strike wave
that has paralysed the port of Takoradi for the past
week. Root of the discontent: The austerity Budget,
including a compulsory savings scheme which the
Ghana Government introduced in July. Ghana's strong
man is not here to face the storm. President Nkrumah,
having made his contribution to the neutrals' conference
in Belgrade, has resumed his holiday on the Black
Sea and no one here professes to know when he
Even more simply, test your own reactions
to different situations. There are some which
bring on an almost immediate feeling of
tiredness - such as when your wife mentions
the washing-up - while others, if they
refer to something you like doing, bring a
veritable surge of energy. Many a girl who
is 'too tired to help mum' will later jump
up with no apparent tiredness at all when
her boy friend calls and go for a long walk.
He holds that more pressure can be put on South
Africa while she remains in the Commonwealth
than could be exercised were she cut off from it.
On the other hand, those who favour expulsion, inclu-
ding African leaders, feel that nothing less than the
shock of expulsion will weaken the grip of Dr.
Verwoerd and the Nationalists. They point out
that Dr. Verwoerd refuses to consider abandoning
Arguably, the dramatist has committed a
technical error in allowing Irene to speak
for herself; we would be altogether clearer
in our minds about her if she remained
a flawed but beautiful enigma, seen but
not heard. However, Miss Pinkie Johnstone
makes her few brief scenes effective, and Mr.
Dinsdale Landen, in the longest and most
exacting role, that of the sergeant, gives
a performance of rare intelligence and
The "pot-au-feu" is as much a national
institution in France as is tea drinking
among ourselves and it is prepared at
least once a week in every bourgeois
household. Thackeray, of course,
waxed enthusiastic about Bouilla-
baisse and sang - This Bouillabaisse
a noble dish is, A sort of soup, or
broth, or brew, A hotch-potch of all
sorts of fishes That Greenwich never
could outdo; Green herbs, red peppers,
This last objection might have had some weight in
ecclesiastical circles. In his Natural History, 13.11-12,
the elder Pliny tells of the use of papyrus in roll-making.
As Pliny was killed in the eruption of Vesuvius which
overwhelmed Herculaneum and Pompeii in A.D. 79, his
information is contemporaneous with the New Testament.
The other form of book was the codex. In this the
sheets were bound together down one edge much as
Thus, musician David Lisbon's chances of being a starred
disc solo pianist were greatly enhanced when he dug out
A PACKET OF DRAWING-PINS. "Why not," thought ex-soldier
Mr. Lisbon, who is twenty-three, and lives in Dagenham, Essex,
"press a thumb-tack into the nose of the hammers that strike
the piano strings?" He did, on his piano at home. There weren't
enough tacks and he got only the middle hammers done.
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law, the
diplomatist Lord Ponsonby, had written to advise Anglesey
to give the system a trial, adding that it was being
cultivated with extraordinary success in France and
Italy, and that he himself was being treated under a
doctor who had studied under its founder, the aged
That was the first point that Mr. Hammarskjold
made. India has responded handsomely by providing
3,000 men, who must take about a fortnight to arrive.
If the UN forces were thick enough on the ground,
such incidents as that at Matadi would not
happen. THE UN's ability to keep peace depends
simply on adequate support by the nations
which have set their hands to this plough.
He is also a director of a couple of garages. And he finds time as well to be a lyric
writer. He writes with Tolchard Evans, composer of "Lady of Spain" and other big hits.
Tolch, as he is known in Tin Pan Alley, likes songs with a month in the title. He wrote
"My September Love," the big David Whitfield hit of 1956.
This is not a filmed play. It has been conceived
throughout in terms of the cinema, and again
and again it is the visual qualities of the
story, and the marriage of the central charac-
ters to their background, which bring the
film so vividly to life. In Fanny, which
also has its premiere tomorrow, the director,
Mr. Joshua Logan, attempted but failed to
create the atmosphere of a city.
Much more spacious than that poky little cottage,
which wasn't a bit practical really, the
reception room was too small when divided
and too big when not.
The thought of Nicholas haunted her, the sense of
loss crucifying. Her father's comment roused her as
he said, 'I was not talking of a carnival. But I
presume we shall be allowed to have one or two
of our friends at the ceremony.'
The dinner table is the best answer to the grumblers in
Britain today! "THIS is colour day," proclaimed the American
television network, N.B.C. And hour after hour it poured out its
programmes in bright colours. In America colour TV is five years
old. There are already 600,000 sets in use. What about Britain?
The B.B.C. is ready to launch a colour TV service, but the
commercial TV contractors want to delay it for 10 years.
Actually the seine net has little or no cover.
And in this film the rise of the fish was
small, a matter of a foot or two. With round
fish like haddock, which would hardly
find safety on the bottom, this cover
would seem to be even more essential;
but more films are needed to prove this.
Cover in the fast-moving trawl is considered
essential to catch round fish whose
reaction to disturbance would be upwards.
The defeat of the leader of the
Progressive party, Dr. Steytler, in Port
Elizabeth South, announced immediately
afterwards by the United party candidate,
Mr. Plewman, left the Progressives deprived
of both their chief figures. Dr. Verwoerd and
the Leader of the Opposition, Sir de
Villiers Graaff, have been returned unopposed.
The contests were for 86 seats as 70
Nationalists and 20 United party candi-
The questions about children were the same as in 1951,
except that they extended to all women who were or had
been married. It was not regarded as practicable within
the limits of the census to include particulars about
the date of birth of each child, as had been done
in the specialised enquiry for the Royal Commission.
It was a splendid interpretation of the
part. The rest of the cast were well chosen,
with James Maxwell making a fine job of the
sympathetic C O. Paul Daneman gave another
first-class performance last night as a
wartime naval officer in the B B C's
This man is the worm, the creature that
cuts and polishes Altar-Stones. Such
a man is the Shamir that guards him-
self against all the irrelevant pleasures.
Such a Shamir possesses the real acid
to mould our character, to melt our
heart of stone. This Shamir helps
us earthly creatures to build an Altar
for God to come nearer to God.
The mere thought of subterranean travel
gave others a feeling of danger. A medical journal
said, "the deafening peal of thunder, the sudden
immersion in gloom, and the clash of reverberated
sounds in a confined space combine to produce a
momentary shudder, or idea of destruction, a thrill
of annihilation." It was also prophesied that
passengers would be robbed and assaulted in the
VERDICT: The "bunk" needed doubling.
DONALD HOUSTON had a big success on A T V's
"Drama '61" last night as a smooth,
scheming jewel thief in a play by Jacques
Gillies, "The Takers." A polished production
by Quentin Lawrence, here, held together
by Mr. Houston's accomplished
performance as the master mind behind a
See Fig. 2. These are then glued and
pinned into place. A similar piece of 1 in.
by 1 1/4 in. by 14 in. timber is fixed across
the end of the feeding tray as seen in
Fig. 3 which also shows how a piece of
hardboard is covered with plastic material
for easy cleaning and then fixed underneath
the frame with panel pins to complete
If you do not have a wooden floor on which to anchor
the moulds, make a frame of rough lumber as shown in
Fig. 2. The main idea is to have the moulds standing as
rigid as possible, for it is on these you will be building
and shaping your little craft, upside-down. For cheapness
I recommend using Douglas Fir Plywood from British
He says that the Scots are foreigners who have no business to
be in England. The first ruler of the United Kingdom was a
Scot. The Lord Chancellor is a Scot. The Prime Minister is a
Scot - and so were four of his predecessors this # century.
Let Mr. Newton beware. By protesting against Scotland he
Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's
United National Independence Party
(280,000 members) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's
African National Congress (400,000) will
meet in London today to discuss a common
course of action. Sir Roy is violently
opposed to Africans getting an elected
majority in Northern Rhodesia, but the
Colonial Secretary, Mr. Iain Macleod,
is insisting on a policy of change.
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir Francis
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two
later as 'more like a God upon earth than
a human being', had an increasing number of
disciples among unorthodox medical men in the
cities of Europe. One of these was the
Neapolitan, Dr Giuseppe Mauro, whom Anglesey
There is no doubt what the Danes understand
by free trade. It is that they should be free
to sell as much as they like, while buying
more and more from our rivals. Germany has
now supplanted Britain as Denmark's
principal supplier. The farmers of Britain
understand free trade. That is why they fight
The play was no more than a figment of
the imagination which asked the viewer to
believe in a beautiful ghost. It would have been
an impossible piece of television but for clever
production by Michael Hayes. He captured
the atmosphere of fog and mystery to great
effect. MORE than 100 viewers complained to
the B B C last night that an American film,
"Britain - Blood, Sweat, and Tears... Plus
Twenty Years," was anti-British.
Soon they were good enough to sing at meetings.
One of the helpful by-products was that
they were able to obtain some respectable
clothing, with which they wore a white tie
and Red Flag badge, thus presenting a much
better appearance. Later, on many a sunny Sunday
evening, when George went to speak at Malin Bridge,
they would be there to begin the meeting.
The next female fatality occurred eight years later,
yet so strange were the circumstances that it was
a further seven years before even a ghost of a
solution emerged. There has always been something
sinister in the idea of tunnels. The building of
them was one of the most dangerous jobs con-
nected with railway construction; and there
were many people who believed that to travel
through tunnels would be an equally
But not one of his nimble-fingered best. GERMANY'S Russ
Conway is a pianist who calls himself CRAZY OTTO. But
nothing crazy about his pianistics. He pounds merrily away
at a piece called "Piccadilly" (Polydor). I find it cute.
American pianist Floyd Cramer, who played for Elvis on "It's
Now or Never," looks like having a success on his own with
'It's not mine. I wasn't sitting there.' She blinked
disdainfully at him and stepped out.
It was a new briefcase, and as the train jogged along
the shiny clasp twinkled invitingly at Cecil.
He wondered what it contained. Probably the remains
of someone's lunch or a few secret files.
Cecil wriggled irritably under the misplaced management
of a mother who had failed to realise that a son
who is nearly bald is no longer a baby. He started to
climb the stairs, stamping with unnecessary vigour upon
the treads. 'And don't wipe the dirt off on the
According to the legend, Solomon had asked the
Prince of the Demons, "Ashmodeus" to bring him
the Shamir and Ashmodeus told him that the
Shamir had not been placed under his charge, as
there is no Shamir in Gehenna (Hell). An eagle
brought the Shamir to Solomon from Eden,
the Paradise, the only place where the Shamir
Seen in this wider picture, a South Africa that clings to
apartheid is a menace to the Commonwealth and a
liability to the whole Western world. A practical
solution would be for the Commonwealth to draft
a set of principles excluding race discrimination.
And so leave South Africa to make the grade,
Obedient to the policy of his King, de Vienne avoided
trouble at sea as cleverly as Du Guesclin avoided it
on land. Gaunt was compelled to give up his search for
an elusive foe, and, afraid to return home without
something to show, he foolishly attempted to besiege
the well-protected fortress of St Malo. This
involved the dreary method of mining operations in
which Gaunt, under the Black Prince, had shown
considerable skill at the siege of Limoges.
The Rubery, Owen scheme is now in its
fourth year, and opportunity has been taken
to revise the course in the light of
experience. Topics for the six weekly meetings
of one-and-a-half hours (each held half in
company time, half in the man's time) are
now as follows: 1. Personal adjustment 2. Health
3. Work and leisure 4. Living arrangements
5. Financial planning 6. Final discussion
Informal talks at Lancaster House will resume
today. PRESIDENT KENNEDY today defended
the appointment of a Negro as his Housing Minister.
It has aroused strong opposition from the anti-Negro
senators of the Deep South. The negro is Mr.
Robert Weaver of New York. One of his tasks
will be to see there is no racial discrimination
in Government and State housing projects.
In that year Shakespeare had just turned
forty and had written Hamlet two years
before. Bacon was at work and Milton was
just learning to read. James was followed by
Charles, in whose reign came the Scottish
Prayer Book in 1637. Significantly this made
a deliberate return to the Book of 1549 and
became the foster mother of some of the most
important Prayer Books in the Anglican
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
master at Ko"then, near Leipzig, asking for advice.
In doing so he described his distinguished patient and
his symptoms. He told Hahnemann that he found
Anglesey a strong, energetic man with a gentle and
charming character, even-tempered and sedate,
not easily irritated, patient and persevering,
'but he appears to despair of ever being cured.'
By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples. He
told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health
permitted him to enjoy anything. 'The Pearl', he wrote,
'is arrived, which is a great resource. Vesuvius seems
to be tired; he is going out fast.... What a gay, lively
people, and what a busy town. At Rome, every other
man was a priest: here the priest is 1superceded by the
soldier - a favourable change in my eye, particularly as
This figure has been surpassed only on the eve of the
East German disturbances on July 17, 1953. And officials
fear it may be too much for the city's refugee camps.
They will overflow and private houses will have to be used.
It is the tendency to get things
the wrong way round. As a
psychologist I am constantly
encountering this tendency
in friends and acquaintances.
They think there is something
inevitably "queer" about psychology
and this feeling of queerness
usually boils down to a quite
mistaken belief that the
psychologist first looks into ...
The travellers from the New World who had
been in Britain many times before, were
slightly stunned. Afterwards they said: "We thought
we knew it all, but you Britishers never run
To the British Travel Association, doing their excellent
darndest, I offer these sad complexities. IN the 1830's
the Luddites took sledge-hammers to their looms and
many a good trade unionist since then has, in the
hope of improving the lot of his fellow workers, taken
the theoretical Luddite hammer again.
The East Anglian behaviour (see p. 82)
has always differed from that of the
summer fisheries. There is the "swim"
at slack waters, even in daylight
sometimes; and the high swimming,
when fish are caught only in the top
few yards of netting. These and other
fascinating behaviour mysteries are peculiar
to this fishery, which unfortunately seems
to be dying out; but a full discussion of
them is beyond the present scope.
The one real weakness of the Commentator's
case is that, in common with all his colleagues,
he has not, until now, been able to exhibit exactly
how this enlargement was effected nor has he
been able to explain the textual movements by
showing that such changes are part of a
simple and coherent plan. To understand how
this is possible it is necessary to examine the
Other leading members are: Sir Henry Lintott from
the Commonwealth Relations Office, Sir William
Corell-Barnes (Colonial Office), Mr. G. R. Bell
(Treasury), and Mr. G. H. Andrew (Board of Trade).
They will accompany Mr. Heath next month when
he goes to Brussels, headquarters of the Common
Market Commission, or wherever the Six decide
negotiations should be held.
That is doubtful. If however, in addition to her new
good-neighbour gesture, Germany takes a really big
share in giving aid to underdeveloped nations, the
world outlook will be brighter. What gives rise
to optimism is the sign that Germany and the
other leading Western nations are at long last
moving towards a solution of currency problems
Speaking of churchwardens and children leads
me at once to chronicle a most intimate and
lasting friendship begun in 1913 in Purley and
continuing till old age to-day. When I went
to St. Mark's, the first contact I made was
with the Vicar's Warden, Mr. F. W. Charlton
and his family, the youngest of whose three
sons was just coming into the world in this year
Finally attach the back firmly to the sides with
screws driven from the inside. The footrest is a
piece of timber 14 in. long and about 1/2 in.
by 4 in. attached to the front legs with a pair
of angle irons as shown in Fig. 5. When determining
the position of the footrest, do not place too near
the seat to allow for the growth of baby's legs.
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then,
near Leipzig, asking for advice. In doing so he described his
distinguished patient and his symptoms. He told Hahnemann that he
found Anglesey a strong, energetic man with a gentle and charming
character, even-tempered and sedate, not easily irritated, patient and
persevering, 'but he appears to despair of ever being cured.'
It was a little complicated to work,
of course, and there had to be a big
notice in the entrance saying which
day of the timetable it was - but
it added immensely to the interest
and kept everybody on their toes.
To have order does not mean getting
into a dull routine. I have great
sympathy with the young wife
who does not always want to do
the washing on a Monday.
The edges of the transoms should be bevelled to
correspond to the sides and bottom of the boat.
Don't forget to cut out on each side of each mould
to allow for the chines to rest in these
notches, as they are not fastened to the
moulds, which will only be used whilst
the hull is under construction.
The Foreign Ministry spokesman added
today, however, that the Brussels Treaty
was irrelevant, because research on the
various rocket stages had already been
concluded, and only cooperation on the type
of capsule was involved. A lesser obstacle
to German participation is the absence of
any Ministry or Minister directly responsible
for it - and therefore of any budget
under which funds could be appropriated.
Potter screamed during an action, and was arrested. He
claimed he had seen a vision of God - only the padre and his
C O believed him. Courtenay played the part with a gawky,
Northern defiance. The cameras played continuously on his
craggy face, and obstinate, baffled eyes. They stripped
him of his ugly battle-dress, to leave him for
what he was - Potter, a frightened boy who had a
NEW boy on the vocal front is
Rolly Daniels, who comes 5,000 miles
from India to seek disc fame. Comedian Hal
Monty saw him in Bombay, became his manager.
And such is Hal's faith that he brings him to
Europe. Now Rolly gets his big break - a
record, the modern Aladdin's lamp of
Most of those who expound a theory of textual
dislocation take it for granted that the Gospel was
written entirely by one author before the
disturbance took place but a few leave it open
to suppose that the original book had been
revised even before the upheaval. The ingenuity
of the theories is impressive and is the best
It went, perhaps, some distance beyond most
treatments of its subject by attempting to
generate a melodramatic inevitability which
left its central character and the world
around him in complete, unredeemable desolation.
We could, perhaps, say whether or not the attempt
succeeded if we had a little more faith in the
way in which Mr. Ferris manipulated
'And while the heart is slowly dying,
one can sometimes see it - so to speak
- rouse itself and, in reply to two or
three auricular beats, produce a single
ventricular one slowly and
reluctantly and with an effort.'
A great blow disturbed all our efforts in the following
year, 1914, when war broke out. Very soon Chaplains for
the Forces were urgently needed, and I felt clearly
that one of us must volunteer. The Bishop, Dr. Burge, did
not wish me to go then, as I had barely been in the parish
for a year. Mr. Evitt, however, was much less committed
than his Vicar, and he was accepted at once and
was very soon in France where he did splendid
work until his health broke down and he had a bad
Leaning back carries the concealed message. And we
start the Seder showing the Matzos, that they rep-
resent the "Bread of Poverty" which our fore-fathers
were eating in Mitzrajim, to show they were willing to learn;
and we invite anybody who wishes to partake in our
discussions, saying: "Anybody who is hungry, let him come
and eat, Anybody who is thirsty, let him come and
The older universities are often accused of being
interested only in dead subjects. Now Cambridge has
the opportunity to show is just as interested in the
living. Particularly as its rival, Oxford, has had a
similar course in farming for 15 years!
JOHN GLENN, Virgil Grissom, Alan Shepard. One of
these three men has a date with destiny - the
First of all simple part-songs: I found only one member who had
any idea of reading music. This was the village doctor who was an
old school friend at Clifton. He could sustain the tenor part quite well
and lead the others. As for basses and altos the conductor had to
teach by singing the parts with them. It was very amusing, and by
the end of a few months an enthusiastic choir of men and women
could render simple part-singing tolerably well.
Social service as a function of government
was quite alien to mediaeval thought - its
substitute was the mutual self-help of
communities, whether those communities were
monasteries, manors, townships, or wards and
guilds of a city. A mediaeval tax was
therefore in essence a forced payment whose
return was the uncertain bounty of booty
and the vague advantages of military glory;
it was therefore always granted grudgingly
and coupled with the vain hope that, in the
It was while I was at Tatsfield that I first visited Oberammergau
in Bavaria to witness the Passion Play. The place and its people were
to play an important part in my life. For five years in succession till
war broke out in 1914, I spent my summer holidays there and became
very intimate with the people and the environs. Every year between the
Passion Plays, an interval of ten years, another play would be
performed at the small theatre in the village, when new talent would
A good neighbour to those Africans who will con-
tinue to live as hewers of wood and drawers of
water in the white areas of South Africa, without rights
and without hope. THE same sort of good neighbour
that he proved to be to the Jews fleeing from
Hitler in the thirties. It was Dr. Verwoerd who
led a protest against admitting any of them
because they would "defile" the national
They are required to show why they
should not be bound over for disturbing
the peace and for inciting a breach
of the peace. The summonses say they
are "likely to persevere in such unlawful
conduct." Lord Russell, 89, was
putting his affairs in order, and
packing a case, at his Chelsea home
yesterday. His secretary, American-born
Mr. Ralph Schoenman, said:
HERE is a project that will be welcomed by the
family man or father-to-be. Unlike many
commercial articles, this chair is solidly built and
capable of withstanding the heavy handling of the
most destructive youngster. Almost any available
timber can be used but Parana pine is
recommended, being cheap, easy to work, and
It would now seem that Wicki's name must
be added to this list, for his new film
may well be a landmark in the revitali-
sation of the German cinema. Wicki is
not only a director. He began his career
as an actor, had his first important
Bru"cke," and he also appears in the
One of the greatest steps forward that has been
made this century is the way in which illness
of the mind is no longer feared or shunned,
and is in fact no differently regarded than
physical illness. There is, nevertheless, a
great deal of tiredness which comes from
no major complication but results from an
inability to deal with life, especially under
the diverse pattern which is the twentieth
The girl is a knock-out (see pic-
ture of Julie Newmar for con-
firmation). She also has quite a
mission in mind. She, "younger,
prettier, stronger, and more
intelligent" than the wife (as she
soon tells her), wants to have the
perfect baby. And she has chosen
the husband (James Mason), who
is an academic friend of her
Nobel prize-winning father to be
Philip bristled. 'It was never our intention
to have one of those carnival affairs,' he
retorted and in that second, he became the man of
success exerting authority. Sandra watched her father's
face pale. Philip, she knew, got on his nerves, but
everything had gone over her head. It didn't really
matter what was being said because she was
2. Insert hook through loop and under long
thread. Catch long end of thread (Fig. 2).
Draw loop through. 3. Do not remove hook
from thread. Pull short end and ball thread
in opposite directions to bring loop close around
the end of the hook, but not too tight
(Fig. 3). Loop thread round little finger,
across palm and behind forefinger (Fig. 4).
Formula One, which appeared in February, appeared to make
this likely; Formula Two, which appeared in June, made it
very unlikely; if Formula Three restores the original
principle, that is all that need be required of it. It is a pity
that the Government should ever have been led away
from this principle. It is a great pity that the
Government should give the appearance of responding, not
to Mr Kaunda's reasonable representations, but to
the violence which he tried to prevent.
In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by
an old man. Here it is a young homosexual,
estranged from women but yet moved by a
strong maternal instinct to the unborn child
as much as to the expectant mother, who acts
as a protector and comforter to her in her
hour of need. He shares her room and gives
her his forlorn gift of companionship and sym-
pathy - "you need someone to love you while
you are looking for someone to love".
It is equally certain that the British Government
will welcome them. How splendid it would be if, just
for once, the Government were to voice the real feelings of
the British people. And tell Makarios they are not
prepared to accept him on such terms. GOOD cheer
for the week-end. Ford Motors are to put 13,000
men back on a five-day week.
In the first place it is not a great deal
of use telling even children, as I have
already suggested, not to be silly or
to pull themselves together. Far better
to help them to face whatever it is that
is worrying them, to find the original
cause and then deal with it; show it
up either for the sham it is - and many
fears are based upon completely
irrational pre-conceived notions - or to
The body was examined, and it was definitely
established that no sexual assault had taken place.
It seemed probable that the motive had been
robbery, and this was further confirmed when a
check was made with the woman's relations in
Hounslow. Miss Camp had been the housekeeper at the
Good Intent, a public-house in Walworth. Her day
off was Thursday, and before coming up to London
in the evening she had called on her two sisters,
one of whom lived at Hammersmith and the
other at Hounslow, where she kept a shop.
"After long and earnest consideration, Her
Majesty's Government have come to the
conclusion that it would be right for
Britain to make a formal application..
for negotiations with a view to joining
the Community." At this point, Mr. Paul
Williams (Cons., Sunderland) called out
"Shame." Mr. Williams is a close
associate of Mr. Fell.
Dante Gabriel Rossetti had simple tastes in food. At one
dinner he is said to have been blind to the charms of
turbot and to have been much more interested in the
dish in which it was served. He turned # it over
on the table cloth to examine the marks on the back
without going through the formality of having his turbot
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even today, in
the 1960s, no cure has been found for the
6tic douloureux. As early as 1830, when
Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of
death, the new German curative method known as
homoeopathy had been brought to his notice.
He feels satisfaction "from the fact that my personality had been
tested and weighed and not found wanting." He feels like
Pontius Pilate who washed his hands before the multitude
saying: "I am innocent of the blood of this just person."
Like Dr. Globke, whom I interviewed the other day, Eichmann
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law,
the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby, had written to advise
Anglesey to give the system a trial, adding that
it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in
France and Italy, and that he himself was being
treated under a doctor who had studied under
its founder, the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann.
All this has been achieved through Nato under
American leadership. But a big role has been
played not only by the British Government but
by Right-Wing Labour in this country. They have
helped build up Nato and rearm Western Germany,
in pursuit of the old familiar anti-Soviet
policy which brought disaster in 1939.
A pleasant life truly!... It so happens that I have an
Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that
ever was. But he has not one word of English.'
While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall
of the Whigs, and the temporary assumption of
the government by the Duke of Wellington.
But, at the same time, there is reason to
believe that the Federal Government is not
convinced, on the basis of the information
it has so far, that such a project would
be justified from a scientific point of view;
and not merely constitute a "prestige"
satellite, duplicating to some extent American
efforts, as Die Welt suggests today in
Anyhow, Homer does not seem to have
known any way of cooking meat
except by roasting and boiling. When
Achilles gave a royal feast the principal
dish was a grill, which he cooked himself,
and he knew how to do it, too: - When the
languid flames at length subside, He
throws a bed of glowing embers wide;
Above the coals the smoking fragment
turns, And sprinkles sacred salt
So - see the next page! Yes, they are waiting for you.
But there is no need to be frightened. The audience
will eat out of your hand - if they like what
you offer them. A good start will put them in a
good humour. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm afraid
I have not had much experience of public speaking.
In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended
by an old man. Here it is a young homo-
sexual, estranged from women but yet
moved by a strong maternal instinct to
the unborn child as much as to the
expectant mother, who acts as a protector
and comforter to her in her hour of need.
He shares her room and gives her his
forlorn gift of companionship and sympathy -
"you need someone to love you while you
Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at
Lancaster House despite the crisis which had
blown up. He has now revealed his full plans
to the Africans and Liberals attending. These
plans do not give the Africans the overall
majority they are seeking. African delegates
are studying them today. The conference
will meet to discuss the function of a
proposed House of Chiefs.
Should the Herald publish such advertisements?
This is a difficult question. It would obviously
be wrong to refuse all political advertisements with
which we disagree. When an advertisement
contains statements whose factual truth is
doubtful, or where the total content would be
deeply repugnant to our readers, it is right to
exercise editorial discretion. The MRA
advertisement falls into neither category, though
many readers will dislike it.
That argument did not apply to the Polaris submarine.
So long as the Soviet Union had nuclear weapons,
the West, somewhere, must have them too. It
was far better for a weapon used for retaliatory
purposes to be under the sea rather than on land.
This was why the Labour Party did not think it right
to oppose the Polaris depot ship.
None of these classes, except the yeomen, paid or
expected to pay direct taxes. During the four-
teenth century, the traditional methods of
financing the Exchequer had become stabilized.
When the King and his Council required additio-
nal funds, they were usually granted an
export tax on the wool trade, collected by
means of that 'staple' system which ensured that
prices, quality and tax could be efficiently su-
pervised and controlled, together with a
And he suffered an alcoholic
seizure and was gravely ill in
hospital with a diabetic and heart
condition. His return to Dublin was
heralded by the announcement that
he was "off the gargle - a retired
alcoholic." Since then he has been
heard of often in the newspapers -
three times up before the beaks for
drunk and disorderly conduct.
Mr. William Lucas (Morris) is always
insensitively pushing, Miss Sheila Allen his
wife, always palely appealing, Mr. James Maxwell,
the editor, always comically abashed by the
events, and Mr. Aubrey Richards, the father-in-law,
always comically grotesque; they were not asked
to modulate from their set moods but played
with proper efficiency and, in the case of Mr.
Richards, with lavish and suitably gaudy
He thought, he said, that the Soviet
Union would be prepared to reach
an agreement on a zone of controlled
disarmament in Europe. Mr Gaitskell
concluded, declaring that the present
was the beginning of a great period of
opportunity for the party. It was a
great chance that should be grasped.
Inter-union jealousies prevent the
fulfilment of a common policy for wages
and other major questions, Mr. Jack Cooper
Their demands are invariably couched in
hectoring, out-of-date language, but in spite of all
their bluster, they let many a big fish through the
net while they are bullying the minnows. I have just
heard a good example of their officious efficiency.
A young chap I know got his first job last week. He
is paid monthly in arrears and will not get
a bean for the next twenty-one days.
This week of window dressing will not prevent
most of the hopeful 15-year-olds leaving school
in six weeks time from ending up in blind alley
jobs. It needs more than 10,000 church parades
and open days at techs, more than descents into
Brighton's sewers or balloon ascents over
Wolverhampton for Britain's technical training to
catch up with the space age.
Mr. William Lucas (Morris) is always
insensitively pushing, Miss Sheila Allen
his wife, always palely appealing, Mr.
James Maxwell, the editor, always comi-
cally abashed by the events, and Mr.
Aubrey Richards, the father-in-law, always
comically grotesque; they were not
asked to modulate from their set moods
but played with proper efficiency and,
in the case of Mr. Richards, with lavish
and suitably gaudy colour.
His aspect was as dusty as his office, with scurf
from dusty hair on the dusty shoulders of his black
suit, cigarette ash down the front, an ashen face
and yellow sleepy dust in the corners of his pale
grey eyes. His finger-nails were dirty, though he
tried to make up for it by constantly paring them
with the finger-nail of the opposite hand.
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir Francis
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as
'more like a God upon earth than a human being',
had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox
medical men in the cities of Europe. One of these
was the Neapolitan, Dr Giuseppe Mauro, whom Anglesey
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even today,
in the 1960s, no cure has been found for the
6tic douloureux. As early as 1830, when
Anglesey believed himself to be on the
point of death, the new German curative
method known as homoeopathy had
been brought to his notice.
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir Francis
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later
as 'more like a God upon earth than a human
being', had an increasing number of disciples
among unorthodox medical men in the cities
of Europe. One of these was the Neapolitan,
Dr Giuseppe Mauro, whom Anglesey consulted
Now the argument is being used that Nato must be maintained
and Britain must stay in it to keep the Germans in
control. Nato, far from being a means of controlling
the German militarists, is, in fact, the cover for
building up their power. What must Britain do? Today,
again, she has a key role. Let her tell men like Strauss
that he shall have no bases or "facilities," no help in
For all that, as far as England is concerned,
there have been only two occasions on
which a body has been found in a tunnel
in circumstances pointing to murder.
The first was that of Mr Gold, in the famous
Lefroy case, and by an odd chance the second tragedy
occurred on the same line, although this time the
Dante Gabriel Rossetti had simple tastes
in food. At one dinner he is said to have
been blind to the charms of turbot and
to have been much more interested
in the dish in which it was served. He
turned it over on the table cloth to
examine the marks on the back
without going through the formality
of having his turbot removed first.
Prime Minister after Prime Minister speaks out
in revulsion against the South African
Government's policy of apartheid as we wait
for the curtain to rise on the Commonwealth
Conference in London. Will it end with
South Africa's exclusion from the
Commonwealth? The issue is touch and go.
As in 1958, younger couples paid some 12 1/2 per cent
more per calorie than the national average, and families
with four or more children 19 per cent less. The only
substantial change was in families with three children,
for whom the index declined from 91 to 88. Table 27
also shows the corresponding values of an index which
compares the prices paid by different types of household
for the commodities constituting the average household
When the sailing season was past, he sent Pearl
back to England, and returned to Rome for the
# winter. In late November, he was 'suffering as
usual', but hoped, he told Arthur, 'to find this
place agree with me better than Naples. The
journey has been against me, as there has been
much rain and damp, but the temperature is high
& I have not yet thought of a fire....
Punch in all nail and panel pin heads and fill the holes
with plastic wood. Then thoroughly glasspaper the whole
framework and round off any sharp edges (such as the
edge of the seat, feeding tray, etc). Fill the grain with a
woodfiller in the usual way and paint the frame in
a suitable pastel shade, using a contrasting colour
for the seat and the back which can be decorated with
a suitable nursery transfer.
In 1959 it was suggested by Mr. T. M. Banks, Assistant Director
of Education for Glasgow, that industrial firms might be ready
to let older employees attend day-release courses on preparation
for retirement, their wages paid for the time thus spent. An
approach was made to about twenty large firms and in Oc-
tober, 1959, the first experimental day-release course for
men was organised. Eleven students from seven firms atten-
ded a course on six full Fridays and it was made clear both
to the men and their employers that the venture was an
experiment from which the organisers hoped to learn as much
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken
a town in the industrial North of England
and has made it live. The shabby streets
and wet pavements, the school play-grounds,
the public monuments and the rubbish
strewn canals - even the worn head-stones
in the churchyard, "sacred to the memory of" -
are seen as an integral part of the story.
He has had numerous meetings with the Service
Ministers. He has also had talks with the Earl
of Home, Foreign Secretary, and with other
Ministers concerned with overseas aspects
of defence policy. Details of the scheme
are now being worked out by the Chiefs
of Staff, a process that may take four
Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Federation.
Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end
meeting. But he told M Ps yesterday: "I
have no knowledge of secret negotiations."
He said Britain had an obligation to consult
the Federal Government. But the final
decision remained with the British Government.
Mr. James Callaghan, Labour's Colonial
spokesman, said Sir Roy had no right to
delay progress in the talks by refusing
to sit round the conference table.
Comprehensive legislation is obviously preferable. They should not,
however, disdain this opportunity of obtaining a useful sample of
parliamentary opinion by at least allowing these Bills a fair run.
Centigrade v. Fahrenheit. The fight is on. The challenger has behind
it not only the authority of the SECRETARY of STATE for AIR
but also the backing of the DIRECTOR GENERAL of the Meteoro-
It is impossible for Labour's new Defence state-
ment to unite the movement as the Labour
leaders are not only in favour of American
bases, but are in favour of German bases and
troops being trained on British soil. The new
Defence statement, while accepting that Britain can-
not remain an independent nuclear Power, now
supports the policy of depending on American
nuclear weapons and the H-bomb, placing
Britain in an even more dangerous position.
RELAXED, smiling and clearly in the best of
spirits, Mr. Krushchov yesterday returned to
Moscow after his two days of talks with President
Kennedy, writes Dennis Ogden from Moscow. The
good beginning made at Vienna must be
followed up by new efforts for peace, the
Soviet Communist Party newspaper Pravda
declared yesterday. Events in Vienna "gave hope
to people of goodwill who hate the cold war,
and to all who are striving for a stable peace,"
Every garden boy will agree that having to
wash clay pots is a definite factor in
favour of their abolition; in fact one
young man was so wholehearted about this
a few years ago that he made the headlines
for having smashed a large number # to
relieve his feelings. On the small-to-medium
establishment, it is a disagreeable chore
which nobody tackles with any enthusiasm,
whereas on larger establishments the pots
can be sterilized or washed by machine.
"Mr. Powell finds it easier to take it out of mothers,
children and sick people than to take on this vast
industry," Mr. Brown commented icily. "Let us have a
full inquiry into the cost of drugs and the pharmaceutical
industry." The health of children today owed much
to the welfare food scheme. It was maintained
during the war. Now in conditions of Tory
affluence it seemed it could not be carried on.
The heli-hopping Duke of Edinburgh,
opening a few technical college extensions,
will not keep us abreast of the
scientific revolution. Out of the 550,000
young people aged 15-17 starting
work in 1960 420000 (73 per cent)
went into unskilled work. The per-
centage is expected to swell to 80
next year. The Duke, possibly
speaking from experience, stated:
1. Are there differences in adjustment to ageing
and retirement according to the occupational
level of employees? 2. If so, which occupational
levels are the better or the poorer prepared
for successful adjustment to retirement and
in what aspects? 3. Does the evidence
obtained support a rationale for adapting
a pre-retirement planning and preparation
programme to the needs of older employees
of different occupational levels?
'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble! What
infatuation! Personally I am indifferent,
but I really tremble for my country! I may
be mistaken, 1tho' I cannot but fear that
the exasperation of the People will be
so great at the return of Ultratoryism,
that the Commons House upon a dissolution,
which must be had, will be a mass of
Radicalism, &; then God knows what
Thus we can see that herring
movements, although primarily
instinctive perhaps, and certainly
helped and hindered by water flow,
are also closely related to the sea-bed
geography. Geography, too, names the
great fisheries that depend on them:
the Fladen Ground (where again most big
shots are taken on the edges), the Gut,
a deep-water channel to the Dogger where
the herring spawn along the northern
Epicures and gourmands, sated by the unending
procession of dishes from those mammoth kitchens
of the 18th century - that amazing epoch of
grossness and delicacy - sought inspiration at last from
the dishes of the country, and, instead of gorging the
eye with magnitude, began to understand the value of
intelligent selection and comparative simplicity, though
nowadays their simplified meals would seem quite
He read the film star's sorry story and frowned at the
provisions of Schedule D taxation which not only allowed her
to claim relief on the most unlikely purchases, but also
postponed demanding the tax until her financial year
was ended, audited and agreed by the Inspector. The
process could, and often did take several years.
His voice was like his black and pin-stripe,
a grey superimposition of respectability over
the original colour of his own natural vowels,
the result being somehow as ineffective, not
just dusty-grey but muddy, slimy even.
His digressions too, seemed to have no other
purpose than the throwing of dust in his
client's eyes, the dust of fake security, of
the fake friend of the family, like the
The weekend conference for the men and their wives,
which takes place at company expense in a country or
resort hotel, includes an address on 'The Woman's Point
of View' and one on 'Making the Most of Health'. Separate
discussions are arranged for the wives in addition to the
plenary sessions. Of the men reaching fifty years of age
since the scheme started, 125 (37.2 per cent) have
The libretto, by W. H. Auden and Chester Kallman,
is largely a satire on the petty court
surrounding an ageing poet, whose deeply
egocentric character leads him to sacrifice
everything to his need of inspiration. Henze
obtains his musical characterisation by means
of individual instrumental timbres and "personal"
intervals, and the result is often less delineation
of character than caricature. This is also the chief,
or at least the most successfully executed trait
of the libretto, which contains an odd blend of highly
And, if certain dishes and modes of food have
persisted down the ages, the motive that preserved
them has always been the same. Apart from the need
for nourishment, the instinct of hospitality has
always been strong in mankind. The sharing of
a meal in those earliest dangerous days was an
admittance into an acquaintanceship far more
important than the casual meetings of the present
day; the desire to share something more intimate
than mere converse has always been there.
They closed on a single bundle and, fumbling with
nervous excitement, he pulled it out. His eye
rested on a wad of stiff white paper printed on one
side. 'Old fashioned fivers!' he muttered again, and
tried to recall if they were still legal tender. Surely the
Govr. and Compa. of the Bank of England would never
break their promise to pay on rude demand, let
Here are the plans of a very seaworthy little
rowing dinghy many of which I have built and
sold. It is especially designed for simplicity in
construction, cheapness and lightness of weight,
and measures approximately 8 ft. by 4 ft. She
weighs only 60 lb. but can carry three people
and an outboard motor with a comfortable
The Messusah, which is nailed on the doorposts
contains those two lessons. The third lesson
of the Shmah (Numbers 15, 37-41) is
called "the going-out of the land of
Egypt". It starts with the story of the fringes
the "tsitsits". This lesson used to be read
only in the morning. And the Talmud tells a
story, which is also in the Hagadah that
Rabbi Eleasar ben Assarja said, "I am
nearly seventy and I had not succeeded that
WE have not yet reached the stage in Britain
when 50 planes are engaged in spreading 1,500 tons
of DDT and fuel oil over 3 million acres or when
20 million acres are sprayed with dieldrin. An eye-
witness described one sprayed area as literally rank with
the stench of small game and birds dead from insecti-
Can we now put forward any reasonably clear
picture of this "basis" of mental phenomena?
The physicists have succeeded remarkably well,
with the atomic theory, in giving a clear and detailed
picture of the basis of such material phenomena
as chemical action, magnetism, the behaviour of
gases and so on. Where has psychology got to in its
theories of "mind"? Are there any ultimate units
of mind akin to the atoms of matter?
PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough
over West Germany's cash offer to help
America's balance of payments position. He
said bluntly in Washington yesterday that
the offer - 357million - was not good enough.
And he indicated that his Government
would try to get Germany to pay more. He
did not mention personal talks with Dr.
Adenauer, the West German Chancellor.
All the joints are simple halving joints glued and pinned,
which should nevertheless be cut with care to ensure a neat
appearance. The side frames are joined by four cross pieces
each 1 1/4 in. by 1/2 in. by 14 in. which fit into the recesses (C),
From the day it hatches in the spring
until it dies in the late autumn, the
praying mantis satisfies its voracity by
eating other insects. Nine blowflies
may be consumed at one sitting and
the fully adult, 2 1/2-in.-long insect,
is able to keep a firm hold on one
grasshopper while eating another.
According to Dr. Max Beier in "Fang-
heuschrecken" (Die Neue Brehm Bu"ckerei,
1952), the praying mantis is trecking
'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble! What
infatuation! Personally I am indifferent, but I really tremble
for my country! I may be mistaken, 1tho' I cannot but
fear that the exasperation of the People will be so
great at the return of Ultratoryism, that the Commons
House upon a dissolution, which must be had, will be a
mass of Radicalism, &; then God knows what may happen....
When the sailing season was past, he sent Pearl back to
England, and returned to Rome for the winter. In late
November, he was 'suffering as usual', but hoped, he told
Arthur, 'to find this place agree with me better than Naples.
The journey has been against me, as there has been much rain
and damp, but the temperature is high & I have not yet
Unless they do at least that, Dr. Verwoerd will
be able to return home claiming a triumph.
His smile will be blander than ever. WE are in
for it again: another Royal Wedding. Between
now and June, when the Duke of Kent will
marry Miss Worsley, hardly a day will pass
without a story or a picture or probably both,
about the nuptial arrangements.
A pleasant life # truly!... It so happens that I have
an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that
ever was. But he has not one word of English.'
While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of
the Whigs, and the temporary assumption of the govern-
ment by the Duke of Wellington.
It went, perhaps, some distance beyond most treatments
of its subject by attempting to generate a melo-
dramatic inevitability which left its central character
and the world around him in complete, unredee-
mable desolation. We could, perhaps, say whether
or not the attempt succeeded if we had a
little more faith in the way in which Mr.
Ferris manipulated his characters.
Many men with only limited accommodation
have to do their woodwork on the kitchen table.
Providing this is sound, some perfectly good
work can be done on it, but the usual problems
are those of the vice, the bench stop, and storage
place for tools. The combined bench top and
tool cupboard shown here has been specially
designed and made for WOODWORKER
readers who have this difficulty.
Top of the table, at the moment, is the chemical industry.
Then comes engineering, followed by iron and steel.
Even the staid and timid Treasury is cheered by the
tremendous upsurge in investment. It reports that new
factory building this year is likely to be 40 per cent
up on 1960. Britain's business men are right to back
MR SELWYN LLOYD may speed up his plans
to catch speculators in shares and property.
The first hint of the Chancellor bowing to
public opinion over his "July Budget" came
dramatically in the Commons yesterday. Mr
Lloyd said on # Tuesday that he proposed
to deal in his next regular Budget with
some profits which now escape tax.
A Scottish knight - Sir John Mercer - was
imprisoned in England. His son, in revenge, was
harrying English shipping as far away as Cherbourg,
and doing it to some purpose. John Philpot,
one of that new class of merchant financiers
which the city of London was now producing, fitted,
equipped and manned a fleet from his own
resources, and captured the young Mercer in a
Mr. William Lucas (Morris) is always insensi-
tively pushing, Miss Sheila Allen his wife,
always palely appealing, Mr. James Maxwell,
the editor, always comically abashed by
the events, and Mr. Aubrey Richards, the
father-in-law, always comically grotesque;
they were not asked to modulate from
their set moods but played with proper
efficiency and, in the case of Mr. Richards,
with lavish and suitably gaudy colour.
The main disadvantage of the clay pot is its
brittle nature; even with reasonably careful
handling, the annual losses are often around
10 per cent., and where the handling and
storage facilities are not too good, these
losses will be even greater. This does not
necessarily apply to the larger sizes, as
they are not quite so fragile as the
smaller ones and are not normally thrown
about in quite the same way.
SOME years ago a contemporary philosopher
told us that there was nothing an En-
glishman would not do; nothing an Ame-
rican would not say; nothing an
Italian would not sing; no music
to which the Frenchman would not
dance; nothing the German would
not covet; and nothing the Chinese
They really believed that the Treaty of Versailles
was an iniquitous injustice. When they burst into
Czechoslovakia, Poland, Holland, Belgium and France
they really believed Hitler when he screamed at
them that they were being "encircled." They really
believed in the moral superiority of "The New
Order" which Himmler on October 4, 1943, expressed
thus: "Whether nations live in prosperity or starve
to death like cattle interests me only in so far as we
need them as slaves to # our Kultur; otherwise
it is of no interest to me.
But he now feels, in view of a changed international
situation and especially in view of fresh problems facing
the new and independent countries of Africa, that the
time is ripe to have more frequent consultations between
the uncommitted countries and even to work out common
stands on various problems facing those nations. Two
subjects, the Congo and Algeria, are the main topics
of the talks in Belgrade - and on both the two
leaders have identical ideas.
The Shamir's daily life writes the Decalogue,
which is written on two plates, the hard facts
of life, and all facts are "one". We have all
come across human Shamirs and they leave
a deep impression on our feelings and senses.
They make us the Altar for God to emit
the Light which can be read in every
language. The Shamir is the "seventh" and
most important creature, that was created on
the eve of the Sabbath, to bring the
Sabbath, real peace to the whole world.
The job of the teacher is to set the learner's
vocabulary to work on the existing store
so as to make it grow. He does not
simply pack new things into the store.
The solitary learner has to find out
how to do this for himself, with the help
of books. He uses his vocabulary to
ask questions and uses the books to
Now along comes his solo disc, featuring two of his own
compositions, "Deerstalker" and "Almost Grown Up." VERDICT:
Mr. Lisbon has it taped. And tacked. And he says: "Just as well
I had only one box of tacks - it might have been so
different...." More news from the ivory-thumping dept....
Russ Conway, who has tinkled his way to fame on an old 2pianna,
comes in with another of his own works: "Parade of the
Mr. Macmillan said we could be more help
to the Commonwealth through the
strength we would gain in the Common
Market than by isolation. He paid
tribute to the development of the
Common Market. "The Community
(Common Market) has imparted an
impetus and an economic growth
to The Six. Above all, it is an idea
which has gripped men's minds,"
On the specific question of the use of Blue
Streak, Mr. Thorneycroft's task will be
easier. He can point out that this is the
only rocket and launcher in Europe to
have reached a sufficient stage of development
for adaptation as the first stage in
putting a heavy satellite into outer space.
There has also been some talk of adopting another
British rocket, Black Knight, for the second
stage, but the French have one of their
own called Veronique which they would
"We must not be rattled into surrender,
but we must not - and I am not - be
afraid of negotiation." Mr. Godber,
Minister of State, Foreign Office, said
earlier that the Government had asked
the Medical Research Council to reassess
the fall-out position in view of the Russian
tests. The Council's findings would be
A third man's house was watched for four days
by plain-clothes men. Committee-member Mr. George
Clark commented at a Press conference: "The
most extraordinary things are happening." Fifty
committee members will appear at Bow-street
today, including Lord Russell, Lady Russell,
Lord Boyd-Orr, the Rev. Michael Scott, and
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken
a town in the industrial North of England
and has made it live. The shabby streets
and wet pavements, the school play-grounds,
the public monuments and the rubbish strewn
canals - even the worn head-stones in the
churchyard, "sacred to the memory of"
- are seen as an integral part of the
So the arrival of any particular shoal
fish at a certain spawning ground may
be accidental. Yet there will always be some
that find it if enough are travelling, just as
the robin who gets back exactly may be
only one among thousands who do not.
But this southerly migration is not
accidental. Being contranatant or against
the drift, it probably has a survival value
in ensuring that the fry after hatching
are drifted back into the normal home
With a large blond youth of quite
dazzling dumbness called Troy
Donahue; and Claudette Colbert, still
charming amid the nonsense, and Karl
Malden not knowing how to take it,
all rolling eyeballs like a villain
He claimed that, unless we were in the
Common Market, we should not be able to
play any part in # determining its future.
"We can lead better from within," he said.
Mr. Macmillan dealt with the main objection
raised by Tory critics. Mr. Anthony Fell,
who created a scene on this point on
Monday, took up a position almost hidden
behind the Serjeant at Arms' chair.
Then here was Nice, and the old holiday
sea, blue as a new school exercise
book. The same old Nice, creamy,
vulgar, out of time, bitter-sweet with
the ghosts of dead monarchs and brilliant
prostitutes, edging past grubby grandeur
to the old sleeping port. This, and
Paris, were my ruined pavilions, and I
could catch the taste of dead dreams on
my tongue like spray.
"Let's have another song with a month in it," said Tolch. Mr.
Charles obliged with "April Serenade." This week it appears, a
tuneful melody sung impeccably by Robert Earl (Philips). PRODUCER
Russell Turner, 33, provides his last programme for the B B C tonight
with Robert Harbin's "Mystery and Magic" (7.30). After six years
with the Corporation, during which he started "Juke Box Jury" and
directed "Six-Five Special," Turner is aiming to go into free-lance
T V, film and stage production work.
Meanwhile I had been asked to do a bit of Diocesan
work in connection with Higher Religious Education, and
to become the Southwark Secretary of the Church Reading
Union. This meant organizing lectures and courses of
religious instruction through the Diocese, and I
also found myself a member of the Diocesan
Conference, where I remember introducing myself as
the incumbent of the highest church in the
At last Brendan - to the journalist's
relief - turns his attention to
the writing scene. He proceeds to
place himself in the literary hierarchy.
"I consider myself," he says, "a cut
above Evelyn Waugh socially, a cut
above Nancy Mitford artistically, a
cut above Frank Haxell conversationally.
"But," he continues, "the greatest is
Shelagh Delaney. Just because A Taste
So the idea of personal mission by
the Prime Minister to Paris was dropped
Instead Mr. Macmillan will rely on a
hand-picked team under the leadership of
Sir Pierson Dixon, Britain's Ambassador to
France, to back Mr. Edward Heath, Lord
Privy Seal, who is charged with the conduct
of negotiations with the Six. At the same
time the Prime Minister has offered
Commonwealth Governments every facility possible to
safeguard their interests
In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by an
old man. Here it is a young homosexual, estranged
from women but yet moved by a strong maternal
instinct to the unborn child as much as to the
expectant mother, who acts as a protector and
comforter to her in her hour of need. He
shares her room and gives her his forlorn gift
of companionship and sympathy - "you need someone
to love you while you are looking for
Since 1958, 13 Labour life Peers and #
Peeresses have been created. Most Labour sentiment
would still favour the abolition of the House
of Lords, but while it remains Labour has to
have an adequate number of members. THE
two rival African Nationalist Parties of Northern
Rhodesia have agreed to get together to face the
challenge from Sir Roy Welensky, the Federal Premier.
In April of that year his first wife's
brother-in-law, the diplomatist Lord
Ponsonby, had written to advise Anglesey to
give the system a trial, adding that it
was being cultivated with extraordinary
success in France and Italy, and that
he himself was being treated under a
doctor who had studied under its
founder, the aged Dr. Samuel
Arguably, the dramatist has committed a
technical error in allowing Irene to speak
for herself; we would be altogether clearer
in our minds about her if she remained
a flawed but beautiful enigma, seen but
not heard. However, Miss Pinkie Johnstone
makes her few brief scenes effective, and
Mr. Dinsdale Landen, in the longest and most
exacting role, that of the sergeant, gives a perfor-
mance of rare intelligence and restrained
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
master at Ko"then, near Leipzig, asking
for advice. In doing so he described his
distinguished patient and his symptoms. He
told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a
strong, energetic man with a gentle and
charming character, even-tempered and sedate,
not easily irritated, patient and persevering,
'but he appears to despair of ever being cured.'
The sister, able to swim, had returned
to the shore, but instead of returning
to her brother-in-law (with whom
she had an illicit relationship), she
reported her to the police, and then jumped
off a cliff near Monte Carlo.
Does one, however, know who first thought
of boiling water and food? The ancient
Britons, I believe, used to make water hot
by dropping a red-hot poker into it,
because their pots would not stand fire;
but Jacob must have had one that
would, because Esau sold his birthright
to him for a mess of pottage - and then
we hear of the fleshpots of Egypt
after which the Israelites sighed.
And they are unimpressed by the Germans' claim
that they cannot pay more than 357million
without upsetting their own economy. The
Americans say Germany is having it too
good and is not paying for the past
or for the present. The Adenauer Government
flatly rejected attempts by the Eisenhower
Government to get them to pay a regular
sum towards the cost of keeping American
The mind tires first and conveys the impression
of tiredness to the body. This can be proved by
noting the effect of a new stimulus on some-
body who feels thoroughly tired. Suppose
a mother has news late at night that her
child is in danger. She will undertake a
journey which, an hour before, she would
have declared impossible.
The party agreed that it was unwise to locate the base
in the Holy Loch, only 30 miles from Glasgow, a
city with two million people. It should be sited
in a more remote area. Mr. Gaitskell added that
the Scarborough conference decisions did not, in his
view, truly reflect the opinions of the majority
of party members and still less the party's
Arterial pulsation disappears with cessation of
ventricular contraction. During cutting or puncture of
the ventricles, there is often forcible expulsion
of blood from the wound. Arterial diastole is
thus synchronous with cardiac systole but,
when movement of blood through arteries is
hindered by compression, infarction or inter-
ception, the more distal arteries pulsate
less because their pulse is nothing other
than the impulse of the blood entering them.
Senator Allen Ellender, of Louisiana,
sparked off the opposition by telling a
television audience it was "current
Washington gossip" that Weaver once had
Communist affiliations. The Senate Banking
Committee, which is headed by another
Southern Senator - Willis Robertson, of
Virginia - met today in closed session to
discuss Weaver's appointment. Senator
Robertson later disclosed he had sent a letter
to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received
It went, perhaps, some distance beyond most
treatments of its subject by attempting to
generate a melodramatic inevitability
which left its central character and the world
around him in complete, unredeemable de-
solation. We could, perhaps, say whether or not
the attempt succeeded if we had a little more
faith in the way in which Mr. Ferris mani-
pulated his characters.
He double-crosses the five pals with whom he lives,
cheats a waitress (Juliet Prowse) and cynically uses
a magazine editress (Martha Hyer) to get ahead.
Frankie Vaughan is too nice a chap to ring quite
true as a smooth-tongued, ill-mannered Yank. His
best moments are when he swings breezily into the
He told them that their conception of social services was wholly
different - fundamentally different from that of Labour. They
would provide an ambulance service for the absolutely
wretched - but it would not be too comfortable nor too easy to
get. Answering jeers that it was Labour which first put a
ceiling on health spending and started charges, Mr. Brown
reminded the hostile Government benches that was
done in 1950 because of the financial strain of
Mauro's first action was to write to his
revered master at Ko"then, near Leipzig, asking
for advice. In doing so he described his
distinguished patient and his symptoms. He
told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a
strong, energetic man with a gentle and
charming character, even-tempered and
sedate, not easily irritated, patient and
persevering, 'but he appears to despair
Mr. Kennedy told Mr. Macmillan that he still
wanted him to apply for membership of the Common
Market, even if it meant an unconditional surrender.
There were also brief discussions on Laos, Berlin
and other foreign questions, after Mr. Kennedy had
informed Mr. Macmillan of his discussions with Mr.
Krushchov. With the exception of 40 minutes when
Lord Home, Foreign Secretary, and Mr. McGeorge
Bundy, the President's special assistant for
security affairs, were brought in, the two
But what a change from the dear little old church
at Tatsfield to the great modern church of St. Mark's
at Purley. One felt at Tatsfield that, small as the
church was, it had its own atmosphere, and for centuries
had been a House of Prayer. I could not but feel the
chilliness of the new church, beautiful as it was and is.
When we had found a group of people who gladly
co-operated, we made the little side chapel a place
In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by
an old man. Here it is a young homosexual,
estranged from women but yet moved by a
strong maternal instinct to the unborn child
as much as to the expectant mother, who
acts as a protector and comforter to her in
her hour of need. He shares her room and gives
her his forlorn gift of companionship and
sympathy - "you need someone to love you while
you are looking for someone to love".
My eldest brother was then living in Limpsfield with
his family, and found a very suitable house nearby
where my mother settled, and eventually died in 1926
at the age of 92. Dr. Burge was not able to be present
at the Institution and Induction Service in St. Mark's.
This was taken by the Suffragan Bishop of Woolwich,
Dr. John Leake, who lived at Blackheath, and was
A ROYAL welcome for the Kabaka of
Buganda (King Freddie) from Princess
Elizabeth Bagaya of Toro, kneeling at the
foot of his airliner's steps at London Airport
yesterday. Forty other Africans greeted him,
kneeling with heads bowed. The princess,
aged 24, is now studying history at Cambri-
dge, where she is a friend of Prince William
When the sailing season was past, he sent Pearl back to
England, and returned to Rome for the winter. In late
November, he was 'suffering as usual', but hoped, he
told Arthur, 'to find this place agree with me better than
Naples. The journey has been against me, as there has
been much rain and damp, but the temperature is high
&; I have not yet thought of a fire....
'HELLO, CECIL. HAD a busy day?' His mother came into
the hall as he opened the front door. He nodded irritably
and, turning his back to her, contrived to slide the brief-
case into hiding between the do-it-yourself cupboard
and the polished brass fourteen-pounder shell-case
which served respectively as coat cupboard and um-
brella stand. 'You're later than usual, aren't you?'
His mother tidied her grey hair in the hall-mirror
they had once obtained as a free gift in exchange
for the labels from half a hundredweight of
Trunk and Greppes Tannin-free Tea.
At the entrance of the cinema the
doorman was lying in wait for anyone
who had red eyes. Grasping Catherine
by her suffering arm, he said bitterly:
'Yes, why are you crying, he had to be
punished for his crime, didn't he?' Cathe-
rine stared at him, incredulous. Philip
rescued her by saying with disdain:
'Some people don't know right from wrong
even when its demonstrated to them.'
The statement of Padley and Crossman is no
different in principle to the new defence statement.
They accept American nuclear bases, and also
the use of nuclear weapons and nuclear strategy
until some future date. They deceive the people
by their talk of political and collective control
of Nato. The Pentagon has made it perfectly
clear who controls the American H-bomb, and
who will actually give the instructions to press
the button for nuclear warfare.
We must beware, however, of supposing that there must be any
close analogy between the units of quite different
sciences. For example the success of the atomic theory
in physics might lead us to suppose that the ultimate
units of geometry must be points. It would be more
correct to regard operations as the ultimate units of
SOME years ago a contemporary philosopher
told us that there was nothing an Englishman
would not do; nothing an American would not
say; nothing an Italian would not sing; no
music to which the Frenchman would not dance;
nothing the German would not covet; and
nothing the Chinese would not eat.
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even today, in the
1960s, no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux.
As early as 1830, when Anglesey believed himself to be
on the point of death, the new German curative method
known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice.
They will be asked to comment on the design of everyday articles
such as a chair and a motor-car. The idea is to see what happens when
parts of the mind not normally available without hypnosis are used.
I T V have postponed Malcolm Muggeridge's "Appointment with
playwright Arnold Wesker." Instead, Muggeridge's appointment
will be with Sir Roy Welensky the Premier of the Federation
of Rhodesia and Nyasaland (10.30 p.m.).
Members of the Cabinet are basing their speeches on
a new Conservative booklet called The Record Speaks
which outlines in some detail the accomplishments
of the party since it came to office three and
a half years ago. Nevertheless there is little
illusion in the Conservative Party that their
stock at home has fallen in the face of
heavy unemployment and an uncertain economy.
It was a nakedness of nai"vety to be
clothed leaf by leaf with the disappointment
of experience. Her first illusion consisted in
the belief that all she need do was to go to
an agent, visit half a dozen houses in one
day, choose one, make an offer, put it in
the hands of a lawyer and go away on her
holiday while the whole transaction was
Sir Roy's United Federal Party is boycotting
the London talks on the Protectorate's
future. Said Mr. Nkumbula last night:
"We want to discuss what to do if the
British Government gives in to Sir Roy and
the talks fall through. There are bound
to be demonstrations." Yesterday Sir Roy's
chief aide, Mr. Julius Greenfield, telephoned
his chief a report on his talks with
Mr. Macmillan at Chequers.
"The whole naval might of the Soviet
Union can be seen here - a truly inspiring
and proud sight," said Moscow radio's
commentator. The parade was reviewed by
Marshal Andrei Grechko, commanding the
forces of the Warsaw Pact countries -
the Communist "Nato." He said rocket-
carrying atomic submarines now formed
the basis of the Soviet Navy. MR.
MACMILLAN'S announcement in the
Commons of his momentous
And the tsitsits had a message sealed inside the knots
just as there is a message sealed in the four emblems which
are used on Passover, to depict the "time of our freedom".
And they are (1) Matzo; (2) Bitter Herbs; (3) Salt-water and
Charauses (a kind of fruit mixture in likeness of the
appearance of mortar); and (4) an attitude to lean
But in his absence his chief lieutenants have
not let him down. The strong arm of authority has
been raised against the strikers and is now beginning
to tell. Today's Ghanaian Times (motto: "The welfare
of the people is the supreme law") reports: "The
Government has been urged to take immediate ac-
tion to deal ruthlessly with the strikers."
This puzzled such students of comparative
religion as had failed to detect this cult.
But Mr. Healey had a partial and
limited success. He rallied behind him
the Left-wing opinion so coolly snubbed last
night by his leader, Mr. Gaitskell. Mr.
Godber's performance merited all the mild
scorn heaped on it by Mr. Shinwell.
But why woodwork in particular? Well, there
are many reasons. Wood is in good and
common supply; it lends itself to making
innumerable useful household items -
furniture, fitments, garden items, toys, etc.;
it enables results to be obtained fairly
quickly; it is less expensive than most
other materials; it is a pleasant material
to work with; and, although it does
create a certain amount of mess, it is
all clean and easily cleared away.
The Austrian cuisine embraces the delectable 6Wiener
Schnitzel as well as dishes and stews heightened with
aromatics where the paprika insinuates its perfidious
fire, aerian creams, ingenious pastries and a
crescent-shaped breakfast roll created by a pastry cook to
celebrate the victory against the Turks in 1683. Spanish
cookery is reminiscent of bull-fights, of Spanish dancing
and of Goja: it is vivid, highly coloured, sometimes
Quixotic and withal it has a sombre ardour, with
streaks of poetry, meat disguised under heavy and vehement
Some grim comic relief was provided by
an elderly farm labourer out for a shoot
who hid himself in a bush and imitated
a blackbird. Unfortunately a sporting taxi-driver
was after this very bird and shot the farm-
labourer in the face. All, however,
ended well, reported the paper, since the
pellets were easily removed and the
labourer was able to return to work the
And so they prefer objective methods. Since they cannot
directly look into the mental processes of another
person they observe his visible behaviour and then try
to give theoretical interpretations of what lies behind
this behaviour. This is no more queer than the method
of the doctor who observes signs, and records symptoms,
and diagnoses the inner states responsible for them.
Remember that texture plays an important part in
the beauty of crochet. The finer mercerised threads
are more effective for the delicate designs used for
tablecloths, doilies, edgings and accessories, while
the heavier threads are used for bedspreads,
chairbacks, luncheon mats, etc. Crochet hooks
are made of steel, composition or bone. Steel
crochet hooks range in size from number 3/0,
the largest, to number 8, the smallest.
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master
at Ko"then, near Leipzig, asking for advice. In doing so
he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms.
He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong,
energetic man with a gentle and charming character,
even-tempered and sedate, not easily irritated, patient
and persevering, 'but he appears to despair of ever being
Only Mr. Lucas's actions, therefore, arose
explicably from appreciable motives. The rest,
one feels, were driven to effective action by
the author in spite of the ineffectuality
with which he had endowed them. One
hopes that he is not asking us to believe
that, because of their odd accents, they
act oddly like the queer foreigners of
The small rocket craft, for destroying big
ships, are controlled automatically, even
to the preparations for launching their
rockets. Applauding on the river banks at
Leningrad were thousands now told that in
20 years they will have free food, housing, light,
heat, transport and medical treatment - all
for a working week of 34 to 36 hours.
A pleasant life truly!... It so happens that I have
an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre
that ever was. But he has not one word of English.'
While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall
of the Whigs, and the temporary assumption of
the government by the Duke of Wellington.
The porter at the station bore out this
description, but the man was not traced.
Perhaps the news of their search got around,
for a man did obligingly present himself
at Wandsworth police-station, claiming to have
committed the murder - but he was mentally
defective, and, despite his claim to infamy,
had been nowhere near the 7.42 that evening.
(This is probably to be understood as a well-
known comment on the verse; quoted by
Samuel in support of his thesis and quoted
by the Gemara in support of R. Joshua b.
Levi's thesis!) The proof text of greeting by
the divine Name is taken from the Mishnah.
There is no reference to the Mishnah here
because the Mishnah deals with the
actual practice of greeting by the divine
Name and the Gemara here quotes the
texts to support the thesis of R. Joshua b. Levi.
It went, perhaps, some distance beyond most
treatments of its subject by attempting to
generate a melodramatic inevitability which
left its central character and the world
around him in complete, unredeemable desolation.
We could, perhaps, say whether or not the attempt
succeeded if we had a little more faith in the
way in which Mr. Ferris manipulated his
In VIENNA, before flying off to Moscow,
Mr. Khrushchov said he hoped his weekend
talks with President Kennedy would # help "to
establish an enduring peace between nations."
Replying to a farewell speech from Austrian President
Schaerf, the Soviet Premier thanked Austria for
the hospitality and welcome he had received.
"The Soviet Union has always striven and is
striving to safeguard an enduring peace for
the peoples, to secure an early solution of the
In appreciating this story, modern con-
ceptions of governmental duties must be
set aside. A modern government needs
taxation not merely for defence and
offence but for a very wide range of
social services. A mediaeval oligarchy
needed taxation in order to supplement
the private wealth of the monarchy
(the royal income from the revenues of
crown lands, the fees of feudalism
When eventually the ovens were fixed at the new shop, the tremen-
dously hard work was if anything intensified. George used to
mix 100 stone of bread in 12 hours, and Kate served in the
shop, which was open from 8 o'clock in the morning to
12 o'clock at night. At that time pastries and buns
were sold at 32 pieces for one shilling.
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
master at Ko"then, near Leipzig, asking for
advice. In doing so he described his distinguished
patient and his symptoms. He told Hahnemann
that he found Anglesey a strong, energetic
man with a gentle and charming character,
even-tempered and sedate, not easily
irritated, patient and persevering, 'but
he appears to despair of ever being
And up to ten years' imprisonment can be imposed
on anyone convicted of sabotage. These stern measures
had the desired effect today at Kumasi where the
strikers gave in, but in Takoradi, the chief storm centre,
they are still holding out despite the presence of 1,400
police and 16 armoured cars. And how did the
Government react when the strikers demonstrated in
THE Commonwealth is a multi-racial society. A
policy of racial discrimination in any of its countries
is surely the one thing that it could not survive.
Whatever statesmen say at the conference table in
London, millions at home would regard as fraudulent
a Commonwealth which had room for a racist
South Africa. And this is a Commonwealth in
which five citizens are coloured for every one
Hence the hostility to automation and
the stop-watch manufacturing methods that
have # led to restrictive practices. Now a new
threat to those who toil and spin has been
developed by a firm specialising in electronics
in Los Angeles. They have developed a new
system whereby completely untrained workers
can be taught their trade by means of tape
recordings and television.
At the school, which is charming, ci-
vilised and expensive, the two children
walked together across green fields, and
I followed, seeing how the sun gilded
their bright friendly heads turned
towards each other as they talked. In
Catherine's left hand she carried the
stories of Isaac Babel. After lunch we
went to the pictures. Philip allowed
# it to be seen that he thought going to
the pictures just for the fun of it was
When the sailing season was past, he sent Pearl back to
England, and returned to Rome for the winter. In late
November, he was 'suffering as usual', but hoped, he
told Arthur, 'to find this place agree with me better than
Naples. The journey has been against me, as there has
been much rain and damp, but the temperature is
high &; I have not yet thought of a fire....
Arguably, the dramatist has committed a
technical error in allowing Irene to speak
for herself; we would be altogether clearer
in our minds about her if she remained
a flawed but beautiful enigma, seen but not
heard. However, Miss Pinkie Johnstone makes her
few brief scenes effective, and Mr. Dinsdale
Landen, in the longest and most exacting role,
that of the sergeant, gives a performance of
rare intelligence and restrained power.
One can remember with horror the pictures of the
overcrowded and over-embellished drawing-rooms
complete with heavy crochet antimacassars, mantel-
piece covers with a fringing of clumsy bobbles and
numerous other crocheted pieces. It was some years
after the Victorian period that designers realised
the potentialities of the craft, and crochet was
revived with designs suitable for contemporary
trends. Crochet today has a variety of uses, and
has even stepped into the field of high fashion.
From the above it follows that here, once again,
we have a good illustration of how a
sugya has been fashioned from material
already in the hands of the Redactors.
The sugya is built around the saying of
R. Joshua b. Levi. The proof text for the
reading of the Book of Esther is quoted
with the comment given by Samuel.
Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly
effective, giving full value to the formal
elements of Betti's writing without over-
emphasizing them. Last night's play in the
"Play of the Week" series on independent
television, Then We Fall, by Mr. Paul Fer-
ris, was a morality on the not unfamiliar
theme of the destructive power of unbridled
He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's alleged
association with organisations black-listed by the
Government. Immediately Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter
to Senator Robertson saying the Federal Bureau
of Investigation had reported on Mr. Weaver.
He believed he would perform "outstanding
service" in his post. Senator Robertson's
committee has to pass Mr. Weaver's
nomination before it can be considered by the
And then you get a knock on the head and all evidence of
"mind" vanishes, at any rate for some time. It seems very difficult
to detach the mind from the brain, and all the biological,
surgical and pharmacological evidence points to a very
close connection. There is a lot to be said for keeping the
word "soul" to stand for what many believe to be the imperishable
essence of a man which is supposed to persist apart from
the body, and to reserve the more prosaic word "mind" for
the basis of all those experiences and phenomena which
are clearly associated with the brain.
ARCHBISHOP MAKARIOS puts the Commonwealth on trial.
His ex-Eoka Government decides that Cyprus will join it for
five years. During this period Britain will be expected
to subsidise and defend the Cypriots. They will enjoy
all the trading benefits of Imperial Preference. It is a
safe bet that at the end of five years Makarios and
The verso of the roll was blank, and one
cannot think of an author, Mark for example,
sending out his Gospel lacking the ending,
while one whole side of his roll was unused.
The codex form was not so accommodating. Even
in the case of the single-sheet quire, an extra
sheet glued on might have to be gummed on
over the binding, or the whole codex rebound.
The truth is that good food offers a
programme of entertainment almost
unlimited in its variety and its presen-
tation affords an opportunity of
showing a guest something of ourselves.
It is a far enough cry from the primitive
meal-times of a simpler world to the
banquets of later days, when the table
groaned under its load of complicated
dishes, and for all the blossoming of the
arts around them the diners were little
Only Mr. Lucas's actions, therefore, arose
explicably from appreciable motives. The
rest, one feels, were driven to effective
action by the author in spite of the
ineffectuality with which he had endowed
them. One hopes that he is not asking
us to believe that, because of their odd
accents, they act oddly like the queer
Dr. Davidson said he would go for
a walk over the fields while we attended
to our business. To my amusement,
when we met at tea at the rectory
after the Dedication, the Archbishop
said he had been stopped by
a farmer in a field. He seemed
rather indignant, but we took the
episode without a smile till afterwards.
But this time there was a very interesting
attempt to apply a sliding scale to the
payments demanded. The definition of an
adult was altered to read 'over sixteen',
and, where the poorest were to pay a groat,
the Duke of Lancaster and the Archbishops
of Canterbury and York were to pay ten marks,
and between these two extremes a graduated
scale of payments was fixed for the
different classes of laymen and clerics.
We went straight to bed and slept until
the turtle-doves drummed up the
sun. The next morning, in the square
opposite Pierre's, I read about the Nice
beach catastrophe in the Patriote.
Mart had been right, the body had been
a woman's. It belonged to a Madame
N. Enquiries had been made in the
neighbourhood, and it transpired that
Madame N's husband had made an
arrangement with the dead lady's sister
He climbed the stairs, eager to unload the
guilt-symbol upon the ticket-collector and then
to emerge carrying his shame unseen, but burning,
into the night. He reached the barrier and
fumbled for his contract before thrusting the
briefcase at the ticket-collector with the firm
intention of playing the dutiful citizen
The big "squeeze" means that it is going to be more
difficult to arrange a loan or overdraft. And banks will be
stricter in recalling existing overdrafts. This is underlined in
the Central Bank's weekly return... ...which shows that more
than 163,000,000 of the banks' money is now frozen in the
form of special deposits with the Bank of England.
Why not follow Lord Russell's lead today?
Head for the parks to enjoy the sun. Not in
a foolish cause, but in a glorious one. Good health!
THIS group of men, says a report, work on average
between 55 and 60 hours a week. They also put
in an extra two or three evenings. And they never
(1) Matzo represents Peshat; (2) Moraur
represents Remez; (3) Dipping-in represents
Derush; (4) Leaning-back represents Saud.
(This is the PARDUS.) Matzo represents
the literal meaning of Pesach which
is called: The Feast of Matzos. The
Bitter-Herbs represent the spiritual
principle and this gives us "a wink" (Remez)
how to live and accept all the bitterness
that is hurled against us. The Salt-water
and the sweet Mortar in which we dip-in represents
the richness of the Law and that we should
Thus learning how to learn means becoming
your own philosopher, your own psychologist
and your own teacher. You will then be
a well-established learner and the world
will be at your feet. Although the word
"mind" has given rise to endless
controversy among philosophers and psycho-
logists, many of whom would like to
abolish it from the dictionary, most
of us obstinately go on using it.
Toyohiko Kagawa. Loving Saviour, who experienced
all human emotion, and whose sensitive
nature knows better than we do, what it is to
be really afraid, help us to know that when
we face life boldly, many of the shadows are
seen to be allies and not enemies and that,
come what may, we are never alone when
As it is, with so much of our life already
in a predetermined groove, I would
hardly like to add further to the dullness
which it engenders. But I am not arguing
for this. I know how much of a drag it can be
and I was interested some little while
ago to hear of a school who tried a six-
Now we have the strikes and demonstrations in
Ghana coinciding with the meeting of the Com-
monwealth Economic Consultative Council - the
first to be held in Africa. Only a few hours af-
ter Mr Lloyd and his 24-strong delegation landed
at Accra this morning, hundreds of shop assistants
demonstrated outside the British-owned Kingsway
It is ribald, funny, brilliantly observant
of character, and authentic as a glass
of draught porter. But will we see its
end? The last scene of this fragment
is in a pub where the author throws a
10 note on to the bar and orders a
round for the pals, one of whom cries:
Because situations which may contain
all the elements of fear can arise suddenly,
it is a good idea to condition a child
to some extent against it. To keep a child
of twelve or thirteen under the
impression that nothing nasty ever
happens is not merely dishonest, it
is unwise. As I shall suggest in a
later chapter there are some situations
which occur less frequently than
A policy which breaks with military
alliances like Nato and seeks friendship
with the Soviet Union can prevent another
betrayal like that of the '30s. Shipbuilding
Draughtsmen, writing in his personal capa-
city:* # I WAS pleased to read J. R. Camp-
bell's article, for, as president of a union
which fought for and still stands on the
policy decisions established at the Scar-
borough Labour Party Conference I am
appalled at the character of the current
'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble! What
infatuation! Personally I am indifferent, but I really
tremble for my country! I may be mistaken, 1tho'
I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the
People will be so great at the return of
Ultratoryism, that the Commons House upon
a dissolution, which must be had, will be a
mass of Radicalism, &; then God knows what
It was called "Abou Ben Adhem and the
Angel." I don't know why I was so
impressed with this poem but, on re-
flection, it might be that I took a
guilty interest in the devilment busi-
ness. I may well have felt that I was
hell-bound under a strict Presbyterian
upbringing and a possible reprieve might
come through the sugary sentiments
of "Abou Ben Adhem."
Or it is possible that our sugya contains the
original question and answer and this is quoted
in the other sugya. (This can be supported by the
use of the expression: 'Boaz did it of his own
accord but there was no approval of his action
in Heaven' in both sugyoth. Such an
expression appears to have been framed in
response to the particular point at issue here,
whether the Heavenly Court concurred
in the decision of the human court.)
LESS has been heard of Brendan's work. It is now
five years since his first play, The Quare Fellow, was
produced, three years since Borstal Boy was published
and The Hostage was put on. What has happened to
the play, Richard's Cork Leg, begun 18 months ago
and due for presentation at the Theatre Royal,
Stratford, last spring? It was never finished.
Every unnecessary detail, all superfluous local
colouring must be eliminated. He does not
want the accuracy of a police photograph,
but rather he wants to show the eternal in
every instant." The chilling horror of "Mala-
chias" is due as much to Wicki the photo-
grapher as to Wicki the director. His earlier
film, "Die Bru"cke," was equally terrifying,
but here the director moves out of the world
of reality into an icy supernatural vacuum
A glance at the gauge marks at the bottom
end reveals when the required amount
has been removed, and if care is taken
to stop the plane short of the squared
pencil line at the top, the work will be
accurate. The straight-edge can be used
to test the straightness of the sides.
How many centuries later did the mercenary in
the Roman wars thus impale on pike or lance his
evening meal. Later came the thrifty peasant,
later still the young Victorian buck adventuring
in Paris, and even later our attractive young
ladies toying with these primitive morsels in the
gleam and glitter of our latter-day restaurants.
In this 200-fathom trench the herring do not touch the bottom.
Their descent stops at the end of the light pressure. But
they migrate easterly to the Norwegian side, or westerly, until
in the shallower water the mile wide layers disappear from the
echo-sounders. Bottom crowding comes when they cannot reach
their optimum depth; and this coincides with the suitable
gravelly soil of these many roughs where the spring-
spawning herring are always found.
God grant, however, that I may be a false prophet
&; that all may go well. Sir R. Peel was here,
I understand, but an express took him
While he was in Naples there had opened a new
chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search
for an effective alleviation of his painful malady.
None of the numerous conventional remedies to which
he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had
first shown themselves seventeen years before had
But discussion on current points of east-west con-
flict could not go much farther than, for example, the
truism that policies of menace and mutual disarmament
cannot be followed together. What the council has done -
and it is an achievement - is to make religious con-
tact across the greatest political barrier in what
is not yet a unitary world.
There was a somewhat shocked atmosphere in
some quarters, until I explained that my church
was 800 feet high above the sea level! The
work was growing pretty heavy, and we managed
to get a stipendiary layman who could help
among the children and young people.
At Clapham Junction a ticket-collector
was able to identify a photograph of the
girl, and he said he had last seen her
on platform six waiting to board
a train for the short run to Victoria.
A passenger at Victoria said he had seen
a young lady "as near as possible"
like the photograph shown him, with
a man "very close in conversation and
walking arm in arm."
After the First World War, 1914, I did not visit
Germany for ten years, by which time in
1924 I was in a different parish in Surrey.
Towards the end of my five and a half years'
incumbency I was asked if I would start
a village choral society and conduct it.
This opened up a new interest, and we plunged
At one time it was thought that mind could indeed
be analysed into discrete bits. These bits were
identified as elementary sensations. These were
thought to combine together to form compound
experiences by analogy with the way atoms of
matter combine to form molecular compounds.
But this view led to too many difficulties and
was finally abandoned. Nevertheless the search
for basic units of mind has gone on and will
doubtless continue, for it is the aim of science to
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
master at Ko"then, near Leipzig, asking for advice.
In doing so he described his distinguished patient
and his symptoms. He told Hahnemann that he
found Anglesey a strong, energetic man with a
gentle and charming character, even-tempered
and sedate, not easily irritated, patient and
persevering, 'but he appears to despair of ever
This is hot pressed and resin bonded to ensure
a permanently water proof glue line. Be sure to
see that the edge bears the mark, P.M.B.C. Exterior.
This may be bought at any good timber merchants.
The transoms can be made of any sound five-ply
wood of the same make, or oak or mahogany. For the
last one I made, I used the two flaps from an old
mahogany table which I bought at a sale for one
The urge came from a conference of activists of
Nkrumah's Convention Party "after powerful addresses
by Comrades Krobo Edusei, Tawia Adamafio," and
others. Strong deeds followed strong words. In Takoradi
a "limited state of emergency" was declared, giving
the Government adequate power to maintain all
essential services and ensure food supplies. Thus it
becomes an offence punishable with imprisonment
for anyone who "publishes a report likely to cause
alarm or prejudicial to public safety."
But 6,000 miles seems a heck of a way to go
for a new hit song. He might be well advised to
think hard and long before his next jump into the
VERDICT: Vaughan should have by-passed this approach.
RONALD Lewis has just left for his first taste of the
Hollywood treatment, thanks to a sound performance in
"Taste of Fear" (Warner Theatre, "X").
The second said that the problems which arise from the comparisons with
the Synoptics can be reasonably solved by paying due regard to the time and
plan and to the different public for which, or against which, the author wrote.
The third article excluded any allegorical interpretation of the Gospel.
"It is true he made a point of again being absent
from Northern Rhodesia when his followers have
indulged in such violence." But Sir Roy pointed out
that a few months ago Mr. Kaunda said that
if UNIP did not get its way what would happen
would make the Mau Mau in Kenya "seem like a
But there is heart in the telling, and an
intense realism in the situation. A young
girl lives in a single dingy room with her
slatternly, promiscuous mother. In such
surroundings she learns sex is something
sordid, and when she experiences it for the
first time herself it is incoherently,
clumsily, but half shyly and half in-
quisitively. As is the case in Fanny her
first lover is a sailor who leaves her to
bear his child and sails away.
Anyhow, Homer does not seem to have known any
way of cooking meat except by roasting and boiling.
When Achilles gave a royal feast the principal dish
was a grill, which he cooked himself, and he knew
how to do it, too: - When the languid flames at
length subside, He throws a bed of glowing
embers wide; Above the coals the smoking
fragment turns, And sprinkles sacred salt from
When the sailing season was past, he sent Pearl
back to England, and returned to Rome for the
winter. In late November, he was 'suffering as
usual', but hoped, he told Arthur, 'to find
this place agree with me better than Naples.
The journey has been against me, as there has
been much rain and damp, but the temperature
is high &; I have not yet thought of a fire....
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
master at Ko"then, near Leipzig, asking for advice.
In doing so he described his distinguished patient
and his symptoms. He told Hahnemann that he found
Anglesey a strong, energetic man with a gentle and
charming character, even-tempered and sedate, not
easily irritated, patient and persevering,
'but he appears to despair of ever being cured.'
Short of wearing the same uniform, which is
not contemplated, the Navy, Army and Royal
Air Force would become, for practical purposes,
a single defence force. There would be
complete co-operation at all levels in training
and operations. This would apply also in the
command structure and central administrative
organisation. Mr. Watkinson, Minister of Defence,
has been working on the plan for some months,
with the Prime Minister's approval.
It alleged: Phones were being tapped and
going out of action; Police were visiting
people "on no pretext whatsoever, except
to pass the time of day"; Supporters had
been warned - one that his connection
with the committee was going too far; another
that anti-apartheid agitation was
all right, but support for the committee
We went in. There were a few people in the bar,
elderly, well-off, artistic, who, you felt, had made a hard
bargain for giving up. 'I have furnished rooms,' said
Pierre, 'and all mod cons.' The price was 16,000 francs a
month. 'Yes,' we said immediately, even before viewing.
They have earned his strictures. And his
contempt. SOME people are for ever complaining
that teenagers earn too much and spend it all
when they get it. Now a survey of the Post
Office Savings Bank shows how wrong that
idea is. The biggest group of depositors in
the bank is made of boys and girls aged 15
By the end of the month he still delighted
in Naples. He told Cloncurry that he
enjoyed it as much as his health
permitted him to enjoy anything. 'The Pearl',
he wrote, 'is arrived, which is a great
resource. Vesuvius seems to be tired; he
is going out fast.... What a gay, lively
people, and what a busy town. At Rome,
every other man was a priest: here the
priest is 1superceded by the soldier -
a favourable change in my eye,
Ordinary working people will never
rally to defend a policy founded on
political chicanery or elect a Labour
Government to carry through Tory policy -
Gaitskell's stupid hope. The tragedy is
that enormous inroads could already
have been made into Tory strength by
a fighting policy, based on Scarborough.
THE desire for unity in the Labour and
trade union movement following the
Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's United National Independence
Party (280,000 members) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's African
National Congress (400,000) will meet in London today
to discuss a common course of action. Sir Roy is
violently opposed to Africans getting an elected majority
in Northern Rhodesia, but the Colonial Secretary,
Mr. Iain Macleod, is insisting on a policy of change.
They objected to the word Absolution. So the phrase 'or
the remission of sins' was added. But Absolution remained.
They objected to the word Confirmation. So the phrase
'or the laying on of hands upon children baptized and
able to render an account of their faith according
to the Catechism following' were added. But Confirmation
remained. Other changes in the Book were equally
minor except for the new section on the Sacraments
"You see," she propounded to Rupert after her last patient
had gone, "we can get three thousand three fifty,
perhaps a little more if we can cheat your earnings
a bit. I'm sure you could raise the rest from
one of your publishers, get two books commissioned
and write them later. I've got a bit owing too.
Now, I saw some flats in Hendon for four thou,
and some in West Hampstead for four two fifty,
two beds, two reception, k. and b., just think,
The numbers include "Scotland the Brave," "Men of Harlech,"
"McNamara's Band," "Greensleeves" and "English Rose."
Fay Compton stars in "No Hiding Place" (I T V, 9.35 p.m.).
She plays the possessive mother of a man whose hobby revolves
THREE people will be hypnotised in tonight's "Lifeline"
The chine is the long stringer on each side which
is joined to both transoms and lies in the grooves
cut in the moulds. Each chine is made of oak,
ash, spruce or any long grained flexible wood. I
prefer spruce when available. As will be seen
in the plan, the transoms have a frame 1 in. by 1 in.
Wholesale chemical spraying, upsetting as it
does the balance of nature by killing both pests
and predators, is viewed with concern by a
number of American State Research Stations. Not
content with issuing bulletins on the dangers
of the misuse of chemicals in agriculture,
some stations are carrying out useful research on
pest control by biological means. Both native and
imported predatory insects and insect pathogens
are used in field trial tests.
It is impossible to make contact with Dr. Ver-
woerd in his nightmare world. It is this that
makes illusory any hopes that he may be in-
fluenced to change course. The Archbishop of
Capetown, Dr. Joost de Blank, has pleaded that
South Africa should be allowed to stay in the
Commonwealth. Otherwise, he says, those inside the
country who still oppose apartheid will be
left even more isolated and alone.
What happens is that the unskilled worker
is processed, by high-speed listening to recorded
instructions on how to do the job coupled with
explanatory TV pictures, into becoming a highly
skilled, obedient craftsman in no time at all.
Not only can the raw human mind be
technically equipped very quickly to do one
set of skilled manufacturing processes in one
trade but, by being given another of the new
audio-TV training techniques, he can be switched
to a different industry if he just gives in and
(Actually, the Mishnah quotes two further proof
texts and the Gemara explains why these,
too, are necessary, but a careful examination
of that passage makes it clear that these are
not quoted here because they are not
necessary to prove the point made by
R. Joshua b. Levi.) Finally, we note that
the comment of Rami bar Rabh is quoted
The day I promised to take Catherine
down to visit my young friend Philip
at his school in the country, we were
to leave at eleven, but she arrived
at nine. Her blue dress was new,
and so were her fashionable shoes. Her
hair had just been done. She looked
more than ever like a pink and gold
Renoir girl who expects everything from
Note circulation soared for the
sixth successive week - this
time by more than 15,000,000 # last
week. And that brought the figure
to a record 2,415,000,000. This was
100,000,000 more than the corresponding
week last year and 37,000,000 up on
the 1960 record set last Christmas.
Now look at the other side of all
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even today,
in the 1960s, no cure has been found for
the 6tic douloureux. As early as 1830, when
Anglesey believed himself to be on the point
of death, the new German curative method
known as homoeopathy had been brought to
When the sailing season was past, he sent Pearl
back to England, and returned to Rome for the
winter. In late November, he was 'suffering as
usual', but hoped, he told Arthur, 'to find this
place agree with me better than Naples. The journey
has been against me, as there has been much
rain and damp, but the temperature is high
& I have not yet thought of a fire....
The Government should settle this argument with two words to
the B.B.C.: - Go ahead! ONE man beyond all others is saddened
by the deaths of two elderly sisters who killed themselves because
they had to leave their cottage. Mr. John Crabb, clerk to
Newmarket urban council, says: "I shall always feel this as a
Again the resentment was widespread and
the results disappointing - a tax estimated
to yield 50,000 in fact raised only 27,000.
In the following year, 1380, the last and
most notorious third poll-tax was agreed
by a Parliament which met at Northampton.
There were dark reasons for a meeting so
far away from the capital in a town with
poor communications and not over supplied
with hostelries and lodgings.
AFTER ten days of intermittent, near fatal
ennui, the eleventh Berlin International
Film Festival was suddenly jolted back to
life by two extraordinary films, Bernhard
Wicki's "Das Wunder des Malachias" ("The
Miracle of Father Malachias") and Michael-
angelo Antonioni's "La Notte." The num-
ber of German film directors who have
made first rate works in the last 25 years
can be counted on the fingers of one
There is only one way to develop unity and
at the same time defend Britain. This
was shown at the Scottish Trades Union
Congress, representing 800,000 organised
trade unionists, when it decided by overwhelming
votes, to reaffirm the Scarborough decisions
on unilateral disarmament, and to oppose
Polaris and military bases being installed on
the Holy Loch, or any other part of Britain.
The big Powers involved in the Cold War
must of course keep out. The Americans were
justified in diverting naval ships in case
non-combatant help was wanted; but they
stressed that there was no intention to intervene
in fighting. Yesterday the ships turned away
again, satisfied that they were not required.
It is to be hoped that the UN will be
re-established in their port by negotiation
and that there will be no more outrages.
The Nazi fortress concept turned out to be nothing
more than a fantasy. Thanks to the good
sense of the front line soldiers, the
meeting of East and West was marked by
the use of no weapon more lethal than
vodka. And the effect on the German people
of the first ten years of the promised
thousand of Nazi rule, so far from creating
a spirit of warlike frenzy, had produced
universally a dull bewildered apathy.
The Hall proved most useful, especially in winter
when the distance to the church deterred many from
coming to Sunday Evensong. We managed to furnish
a table with cross and candles, and the people
appreciated the Church Hall for worship as well
as for more secular purposes. In 1910 Dr. Talbot
was translated to Winchester, and Dr. Hubert
Burge became Bishop of Southwark.
The joint communique on Mr. Kennedy's and Mr. Macmillan's
third talks - the first were at Key West, Florida, the second in
Washington - said: "Their discussions covered the major problems,
both economic and political, and revealed once again the
close agreement of the two Governments in pursuing their
common purposes. "Occasion was given to review the need for
economic co-operation and expansion in the general interests
of developed and underdeveloped countries alike."
They drag themselves around and can become
a burden to their families and their friends.
Any mental confusion can cause this and
the best way is probably to seek advice.
As we are unable to cure our own bodies
if the cause of our pain is too deep seated,
so we are unable to cure our own minds,
if the trouble is a complicated one
involving careful and patient treatment.
From Nato headquarters Mr. Rusk went to see President de Gaulle
and informed him of the Vienna outcome. Last night Mr. Rusk arrived
in London in time to join the Buckingham Palace dinner and to
fly home with the President. In DUESSELDORF, Chancellor Adenauer
said the Vienna talks "might be the beginning of a slight improvement,"
but no big changes should be expected in the political situation.
It seems obvious that if an expedition to
Brittany was compelled to attack via Calais,
then the primary essential to the success
of the French war was a navy in unquestioned
command of the Channel. It seems obvious
that divided forces were dissipating the
advantages of a ring of bridge-heads which included
Calais, Cherbourg, Brest, Bordeaux and Bayonne,
and that there was no hope of final victory
without a large-scale and concentrated invasion.
The Notes to the Big Three and a memorandum to
West Germany were published in Moscow yesterday. They
tell: The U.S. - It is false to say the absence of a peace
treaty with Germany causes no real danger. West Germany,
with its militarists and revenge-seekers, is becoming a
hotbed of war danger in Europe. Even now, aided by
the U.S., Britain and France, it has more than enough
forces and arms to touch off a world war.
With a vigour and authority which delighted
old Parliamentary friends and foes alike,
the Earl of Avon, the former Sir Anthony
Eden, in his maiden speech in the House
of Lords last night, gave a warning
that # appeasement over Berlin could
only lead to war. To stand firm, he
declared, was not to invite war, but
the surest way to avert it.
Among the natives of Northern Australia lizards
roasted on the point of a spear are definitely
a delicacy while Mediterranean peoples have a
high opinion of the octopus as an article of diet.
So have the Japanese and the Chinese. The
Celestials, apart from eating it fresh, squash
it, press it and dry it, in which form, dusted
over with flour, you will find a stack of it
in almost any provision shop.
nominating any more Labour life Peers
is to be made at a meeting of Labour
M Ps tomorrow. Mr. Michael Foot has
put down a resolution on the subject
and he is to be backed by Mr. Will
Griffiths, M P for Manchester Exchange.
Sir Roy's United Federal Party is boycotting
the London talks on the Protectorate's
future. Said Mr. Nkumbula last night:
"We want to discuss what to do if the
British Government gives in to Sir Roy
and the talks fall through. There are bound
to be demonstrations." Yesterday Sir Roy's
chief aide, Mr. Julius Greenfield, telephoned
his chief a report on his talks with Mr.
Macmillan at Chequers.
Herring fishermen call this "the outset". It
is strongest at spring tides, when without
wind you will "set" out - or drift to the east-
ward, the length of half a fleet of nets -
almost a mile on every tide at the Smith's
Knoll. Without an explanation of how it
works, it may well be that this outset, akin
to the mouth of a great salmon river, has
been the biggest factor through the ages
in the constancy of this great herring fishery.
When, however, the Greeks did learn the
art of making fireproof earthenware from
the Egyptians, their cookery made rapid
progress, because they were men of taste
and intellect. A remarkable peculiarity in
the banquets of the ancient world was the
fact that they did not confine the resources
of the table to the gratification of one
sense alone. Having exhausted their invention
in the preparation of stimulants for the
palate, they broke fresh ground and called
another sense to their aid.
It is unjust to pass the buck to Mr.
Hammarskjold and the UN's servants. The
responsibility rightly belongs to the nations
which have undertaken the task of pre-
serving peace in the Congo. That is not a
ceremonial duty, and the soldiers have every
right to blame the politicians unless they see
it through. When the United Nations instructed
Mr. Hammarskjold to use force if necessary to
prevent civil war, it was clear that new dangers
would arise unless it gave him the political ...
Banks have paid in a first
instalment of almost 8,000,000
in response to the Budgette appeal.
About another 70,000,000 is due
by September 20. For nearly a year
about 150,000,000 has been frozen.
MR. KRUSCHEV raises the bogy of
German militarism in his replies to
the West on Berlin. And he repeats
that the problem "must be solved
Under such conditions without putting your
mind together we cannot solve the further
summons of destiny, to solve the economic
problems. Hence says Rabbi Simeon ben
Jochai (Tanis 6a) "if Israel does not fulfil
the wish of the Lord, failing to serve the
Lord God with all their visionary power,
the work will have to be done by each
But if it fails to modify that plan Rhodesia may well
be plunged into chaos, like the Congo. For Mr.
Macmillan and his ministers there is no choice. They
must safeguard Rhodesia against chaos. And try to
repair the damage they have done. WHO can grow the
fastest? That is the exciting competition going on
among Britain's major industries.
Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is
quietly effective, giving full value to the
formal elements of Betti's writing without
over-emphasizing them. Last night's play
in the "Play of the Week" series on
independent television, Then We Fall, by
Mr. Paul Ferris, was a morality on the not
unfamiliar theme of the destructive power
Close to the building projects would be the
VINEYARDS (1 Kings 4.25; S. of Sol. 8.11).
The word is a Persian loan-word,
pairi-deaza, from which our word paradise
is derived. Qoheleth has a second
paradise at his disposal but he is
no happier than Adam was!
The word is used in the singular
in Neh. 2.8 and S. of Sol. 4.13.
Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly
effective, giving full value to the formal elements
of Betti's writing without over-emphasizing
them. Last night's play in the "Play of the
Week" series on independent television, Then
We Fall, by Mr. Paul Ferris, was a morality
on the not unfamiliar theme of the destructive
power of unbridled ambition.
For expansion today means still greater
prosperity tomorrow. BERTRAND RUSSELL,
the 88-year-old standard bearer of the Ban-
the-Bomb crusade, has devoted following.
Thousands march with him - and sit with him
too. It is said by some that he is a saint; by
others that he is a prophet. He is, in fact, a
philosopher with a highly developed sense of publicity
who has been spectacularly wrong on the great
Drift in another form probably
explains how these migrating herring
are biased to east or west by the
different winds. Strong westerlies
are well known to bring good
longshore fishings. The surface
water that is blown offshore must
be replaced by an underflow bringing
with it the herring to the Norfolk
and Suffolk beaches.
Some thought that the result would be all
sorts of horrible illnesses brought on by the
confined atmosphere. "The shareholders who travel
by it will be so heartily sick, what with the
foul air, smoke and sulphur, that the mention
of a railway will be worse than Ipecacuanha,"
wrote an anti-railway industrialist when it was
proposed to build the Box Tunnel.
God grant, however, that I may be a false prophet
&; that all may go well. Sir R. Peel was here, I understand,
but an express took him off yesterday.'
While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in
the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective
alleviation of his painful malady. None of the numerous
conventional remedies to which he had been subjected
ever since the symptoms had first shown themselves
seventeen years before had had the slightest effect.
Mr Gaitskell said that a member of an alliance could
not deny facilities to nations to which it was
allied. But governments should be free to negotiate
and refuse proposals with which they did not
agree. The Labour Party opposed Thor missiles, because,
he said, they were out of date and vulnerable and
By the end of the month he still delighted in
Naples. He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as
much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything.
'The Pearl', he wrote, 'is arrived, which is a great
resource. Vesuvius seems to be tired; he is going
out fast.... What a gay, lively people, and what
a busy town. At Rome, every other man was a
priest: here the priest is 1superceded by the
soldier - a favourable change in my eye, particularly
as the troops are very fine.'
Though they may gather some Left-wing support, a
large majority of Labour M Ps are likely to
turn down the Foot-Griffiths resolution. Mr.
Foot's line will be that as Labour M Ps
opposed the Government Bill which brought
life peers into existence, they should not
now put forward nominees. He believes
that the House of Lords should be abolished
and that Labour should not take any steps
which would appear to "prop up" an out-dated
However, a separate poll revealed that Mr.
Diefenbaker was still ahead in terms of
popularity as an individual leader (for
Mr. Diefenbaker 36 per cent, for Mr.
Pearson 34 per cent). How far is Mr.
Lester Pearson acceptable to the people
of Canada as a Prime Minister? Many
observers at the national rally will be
One big advantage of soil blocks is an obvious
one: the cost of a pot of any description is saved
completely. Manufacturing the block and planting
it is very little more trouble than normal potting,
and a superior plant, which transplants more
easily, is produced. The obvious limitation #
is that soil blocks can only be used for
propagating; there can be no progression to a
larger block when the plant or seedling is ready
to be moved; it must be planted out or
He decided that it would be a great error
to do so and to recall Parliament. But
there would be no hesitation in mobilising
if a further deterioration in the situation
warranted such a step. It would have to be
accompanied by other measures of a military,
economic and political kind. Mr. Macmillan,
who was winding up the foreign affairs
debate, said the Government could not
be party to accepting as a matter of
principle the imposed division of Germany.
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
master at Ko"then, near Leipzig, asking for
advice. In doing so he described his distinguished
patient and his symptoms. He told Hahnemann
that he found Anglesey a strong, energetic man
with a gentle and charming character, even-tempered
and sedate, not easily irritated, patient and
# persevering, 'but he appears to despair of
The early speakers in the debate each
severely rated the speech of his predecessor.
These strictures were all too well justified.
We started with the plaintive wailings
of Mr. Healey, "Shadow" Foreign Secretary,
described by Mr. Godber, Minister of
State, Foreign Office, as "pedantic and
obscure on Berlin, damaging and obscure
on the Congo." In turn, Mr. Godber was
censured by Mr. Shinwell, former Labour
Defence Minister, for having read the
She had been struck several times with a blunt
instrument, and her head was smashed in.
There were signs of a violent struggle, blood
on the cushions and floor, and the remains
of her broken umbrella. But a pair of bone
cuff-links found in the compartment seemed
to provide the only possible clue to the killer.
Though they may gather some Left-wing
support, a large majority of Labour
M Ps are likely to turn down the Foot-
Griffiths resolution. Mr. Foot's line will
be that as Labour M Ps opposed the
Government Bill which brought life peers
into existence, they should not now put
forward nominees. He believes that the
House of Lords should be abolished and
that Labour should not take any steps
which would appear to "prop up" an out-
Catherine lives in a white house
overlooking the sweeping brown tides
of the river. She helped me clean up my
flat with a devotion which said that
she felt small flats were altogether more
romantic than large houses. We drank
tea, and talked mainly about Philip, who,
being 15, has pure stern tastes in every-
thing from food to music.
These dreary years of ineffective fighting provide
obvious morals for those who are judges long
after the event. It seems obvious that, though
the longbows of yeomen could pierce the
plate and mail of French knights, a brilliant
battle was no substitute for a sound policy,
and that, if archers had no target, campaigns
became mere marauding route marches.
THE next White Paper on defence, to
be published in March, is likely to
contain a five-year plan for the three
Services. Its aim will be to produce superbly
equipped, all-Regular forces of
about 400,000 men. The three Services
would be "integrated" to a greater
extent than ever before.
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir
Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two
later as 'more like a God upon earth than
a human being', had an increasing number of
disciples among unorthodox medical men in the
cities of Europe. One of these was the Neapolitan,
Dr Giuseppe Mauro, whom Anglesey consulted in
The performance of our talented
feathered friend is not the only
good thing (although the one original
touch) in the film, which is better-
than-average glossy comedy, Hollywood-
styled, European set. Most of it has
been shot in and around the
sun-terrace of the Hotel Splendido (renamed
the Dolce Vista for the picture) in
Portofino - and if there's a better view
Some of the problems were reviewed yesterday at a
meeting in Paris between M. Couve de Murville, French
Foreign Minister, and Mr. Heath. MR. Selwyn Lloyd -
a man with troubles enough back home - seems
fated to fly into trouble abroad. Last year it was
the riots in Istanbul, which enlivened the NATO
It was naturally a highly popular victory with the
Londoners, but it brought heavy censure from nobles
who still believed that they had a monopoly of
leadership. But, at last, Gaunt sailed. Opposing
him was the French Admiral, Jean de Vienne -
a great sailor and an able strategist.
God grant, however, that I may be a false prophet
&; that all may go well. Sir R. Peel was here, I
understand, but an express took him off yesterday.'
While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter
in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for
an effective alleviation of his painful malady. None
of the numerous conventional remedies to which he
had been subjected ever since the symptoms had
first shown themselves seventeen years before
had had the slightest effect.
I AM happy to report that I saw some-
thing this week I have never before witnessed,
either in pictures or outside - a budgerigar
playing a drunk scene, and playing it with
perfect timing and technique. It gives one loud,
clear hiccup and falls flat on its back. This
brilliant budge, I may add, gets no credit
in the cast list of Come September (Odeon,
Leicester-square), which suggests that it
is either using a stand-in for the stunt
Mr. Macleod thought the two Rhodesian
parties had refused to attend the talks
because Sir Roy had found messages
sent from the Government were "unsatisfac-
tory." African delegates to the talks yester-
day called on Mr. Macmillan to cease his
negotiations with Sir Roy's representative,
Mr. Julius Greenfield. He was at Che-
quers last week-end. They said they
regarded with "growing anger" the "gross
and unconstitutional" interference by
Sir Roy's Federal Government in the
Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly effective,
giving full value to the formal elements of Betti's
writing without over-emphasizing them. Last night's
play in the "Play of the Week" series on indepen-
dent television, Then We Fall, by Mr. Paul Ferris,
was a morality on the not unfamiliar theme of
the destructive power of unbridled ambition.
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir Francis Burdett described
to Anglesey a year or two later as 'more like a God upon earth
than a human being', had an increasing number of disciples among
unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe. One of these was
the Neapolitan, Dr Giuseppe Mauro, whom Anglesey consulted in
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has
taken a town in the industrial North of
England and has made it live. The shabby
streets and wet pavements, the school
play-grounds, the public monuments and
the rubbish strewn canals - even the
worn head-stones in the churchyard, "sacred
to the memory of" - are seen as an
integral part of the story.
BRITAIN - One cannot but wonder at British bases being
put at the disposal of those very militarists who razed
Coventry and barbarously bombed London and other British
cities. FRANCE - One can hardly conceive the French are
not alarmed.... Next door, in West Germany, before everyone's
eyes there has sprung up a regular army led by former Nazi
"After a lifetime of helping others and
healing the sick, my considered
opinion is that anybody supporting
the increased charges is a wicked,
old -." Mr. Brown went on: "We
are dealing with a noble edifice which
needs an imaginative architect to
improve it, but it has got a
quantity surveyor. We have descended
from the real problems to fiddling about
It is most unfair to call "Malachias" a cut-rate
"Dolce Vita," for it is far more intimate and deeply
felt. In 1944 Herbert Selpin tried a similar feat
in "Titanic" by paralleling the last days of the
Third Reich with the sinking of the great ocean liner,
and paid for his audacity with his life.
In many cases, their homes know little of
their place of work and their associates at
the office or works wonder what they
are possibly like in the surroundings of their
homes. It is easy, desperately easy, to lead
a 'double' life without ever deliberately
planning to do so or in fact being conscious
of what is going on. It is easier to live life in
compartments but over the years it builds up,
and to do so inevitably builds up tensions which
need to be handled correctly.
'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble!
What infatuation! Personally I am
indifferent, but I really tremble for my
country! I may be mistaken, 1tho' I cannot
but fear that the exasperation of
the People will be so great at the
return of Ultratoryism, that the
Commons House upon a dissolution,
which must be had, will be a mass
of Radicalism, &; then God knows what
There is no reason whatsoever why he should reproach himself. The
sisters had to quit as their home was falling down. And Mr. Crabb
did his best for them, even driving them to a new house. John
Crabb has the qualities of sympathy and understanding. Too
often lacking in officialdom. MR. HENRY NEWTON of Acton
does not want his daughter to marry a Scotsman.
The third reason is that the supreme
interest for the whole world - East and
West and uncommitted nations - is the
prevention of nuclear war. "A rapidly
growing body of opinion in this country
believes that Britain could be more effective
in preventing a nuclear war as a neutral
by helping to suggest agreements which could
be accepted by both East and West."
There may be some who will argue that
routine destroys the soul. It is so easy,
they say, to get into a rut. Save us
from the school curriculum and even
worse the school system whereby for
meals everybody knows beforehand
exactly what, on any given day of the
week, they are going to have. If - such
a critic may say - you are calling
us to adventure, do not strangle us before
we start by putting us into a strait-jacket
Fortunately, however, the fashion for Victorian
architecture which Mr. John Betjeman had
started several decades before had caught on
at last and therefore saved the situation for
the affluent middle-class, who now had plenty
of lovely-ugly to be coldly elegant in. All this
Serena discovered, and more, but in stages. For the
first thing she did was to make an offer
on a small pink terraced cottage, two beds,
two inter-comm. rec., mod. k. and b., sep. W.C.
small back yard, newly dec., near shops and tube
Then they stop swimming and are caught. In
the seine-net film this usually seemed to
happen just after the fish had risen above
the footrope, and presumably out of its
field of disturbance, or bow wave. This suggests
that the wave might be transmitted by the
sea-bed, though the footrope in this case
was actually just off the bottom and was
indeed passing over some fish.
Criticisms about Army manpower appear
to have come mainly from retired officers
who have held high positions but
are out of touch with the existing situation.
Mr. Watkinson has had the utmost support
from the C.I.G.S., Field-Marshal Sir
Francis Festing, who believes completely
in the principle of an all-Regular army.
Gen. Sir Richard Hull, who is to succeed
Sir Francis, is equally convinced Mr.
The proof text of bringing the tithe to the Temple
is then quoted and the interpretation of the
latter part of the verse by Rami bar Rabh
is added, not because this is at all relevant
to the discussion but because it was
a familiar interpretation which had
become so well known that it was
invariably quoted whenever the verse
itself was quoted, almost as if it were a
In China, for instance, dried rats are
esteemed a delicacy. The visitor is told
that they restore the hair of the bald
and that a stewed black rat will ward
off a fever. A number of newly-born
white mice served alive, dipped in treacle
and swallowed like a prairie oyster is
considered a piece of resistance.
I can't recall a production where so many
comics bolted in and out of holes so often.
The jokes were a reshuffle of the same old
lot - this time Brian Rix lost his skirt instead
of his trousers. The action moved at tremendous
speed, backed by some wonderful timing by
the cast. I especially liked the tea-cup
scene where six of the cast changed
cups with the dexterity of Chinese jugglers.
Cut the moulds and the
transoms to shape as in the
detailed drawings. If you have
a wooden floor you can use
'A' frames fastened to the floor
if not, use a strong horizontal
frame that will sit firmly on
the ground or concrete floor. I
use a heavy old base as in
And you serve Mammon and God. And you cannot serve
two masters, and you worship self-interest, isolating
yourself, under such conditions the goods are your gods.
"And then the Lord's wrath be kindled against you, and he
shut up the heavens, that there is no rain, and that the land
yield not her fruit and lest 1ye perish quickly from off the
good land which the Lord 1giveth you."
The original scheme was planned to provide short re-
fresher courses at the ages of fifty-five and sixty:
the first of these is due in 1963. Meanwhile, each
'graduate' is encouraged to seek help and advice in
working out his ideas, either through the company's
personnel department or by an approach to
members of the panel responsible for the scheme.
Only Mr. Lucas's actions, therefore, arose
explicably from appreciable motives. The
rest, one feels, were driven to effective action by
the author in spite of the ineffectuality with
which he had endowed them. One hopes that he
is not asking us to believe that, because of
their odd accents, they act oddly like the
queer foreigners of tradition.
The numerically largest group, consisting of male
weekly wage-earners up to chargehand level
and in the works only, excluding the offices, was
therefore selected. A detailed age-structure was
compiled from personnel department records,
revealing that there were (at that time) seven-
teen men seventy years of age or older,
thirty-three aged sixty-four years, and sixty-
five just fifty years of age.
The latter do not regard themselves as expert
advisers, but are prepared to seek out the
appropriate sources of information or advice.
Towards the end of 1956, Mr. Daniel Grant,
an Employee Relations Officer of
Rolls-Royce Ltd. and a member of the
Workers' Educational Association, submitted
to the Lord Provost of Glasgow, Dr. Andrew
Hood, a copy of his report on an enquiry
he had made into the problems that beset
older workers and the effects of retirement
When 'his' war did not bring victory and
booty, a new group of Lords might oust
the unsuccessful leaders, and the Commons,
who usually supplied the hard cash, might
be bold enough to demand the production of
accounts, and even at times the impeachment of
the unsuccessful. But the Commons were not
the people, and even a full Parliament was
not yet a true mirror of the nation.
A little more honesty, even if one refrains from going into
too many details, would help many a child to make a
proper adjustment to life as it grows up. Let us look
at Jesus. We do not, I think, see there a life without fear.
There are several instances where he seemed unable to go
It will be seen how, with bold design
and rich colour, knitting, crochet and
tatting in fine and medium-weight cottons
can give striking individuality to many things
in the home. Chairbacks, cushions, tablecloths,
to mention only three - how satisfying it is
to avoid the ready-made in these and by
one's own handiwork produce something
that reflects true creative talent.
From then till now the acquaintance ripened into a very
deep friendship which I have taken with me through
all the many vicissitudes of a long ministry. Mr. and
Mrs. Charlton have been from the first difficult
years of war, when most lives were upset and
some tempers were easily frayed, the most
loyal and devoted friends.
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master
at Ko"then, near Leipzig, asking for advice. In doing so he
described his distinguished patient and his symptoms. He told
Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong, energetic man
with a gentle and charming character, even-tempered and
sedate, not easily irritated, patient and persevering, 'but he
appears to despair of ever being cured.'
Sir Edward Boyle, Financial Secretary
to the Treasury, said yesterday that the
Government does not like retrospective legislation.
He went on to describe the kind of
people the Chancellor hopes to tax. These
are people buying and selling shares within
a short period, those "stagging" on a new issue
and property dealers who form a chain of
companies and put one property deal through
Susan Hayward plays the wife sharply
and sweetly. Mason is always good for
a glower. And Miss Newmar is a
stunner in every sense of the word.
According to the script she was once
captain of the junior hockey team at
her school. So help me so was I.
IL GRIDO (The Cry) - Paris Pullman -
is an earlier essay in atmospheric
meandering by the L'Avventura man,
Michelangelo Antonioni.
In spite of all the transferred maternity
she was endowed with by her patients,
poor Serena was an infant-in-arms as
a buyer of property. No, not even an
infant-in-arms but a new-born babe, a
premature piece of frailty in an oxygen-
tent of utter innocence. The complexity of
that innocence was colossal. It had layer
after layer of illusion to be peeled off and
replaced with sad knowledgeability.
He cited cases in which hundreds of UNIP supporters
had been arrested or convicted since last year on
charges of creating disturbances. During the first
three weeks of the present trouble 287 incidents
had been reported in Northern Rhodesia. More
than 500 people - 167 of them members of
the UNIP - were convicted last month in the
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir Francis
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as
'more like a God upon earth than a human being', had
an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox
medical men in the cities of Europe. One of these
was the Neapolitan, Dr Giuseppe Mauro, whom
Anglesey consulted in May 1834.
I have a hunch that he will feel more at home in the
old, star-studded West End than he will ever feel in
Hollywood. His American bosses, 20th-Century Fox, have
recently given Frankie the full, razzamataz, red-carpet
treatment. But they haven't done a thing for his film
career that Anna Neagle and Herbert Wilcox were not
doing better here, before the platinum-plated Hollywood
carrot was dangled before his nose.
The question and answer with regard to the
need for the text of the angel are quoted
here in the same words in which they are
quoted in the discussion on the Mishnah.
This can either mean that both sugyas are
quoting a well-known question and
answer or that our sugya is quoting from
the longer sugya which deals with all
four texts quoted in the Mishnah.
The Gemara continues with a saying of the
Palestinian teacher, R. Eleazar (3rd Cent.):
'The Holy Spirit manifested itself in three places:
the court of Shem, the court of Samuel of Ramah,
and the court of Solomon.' The place of this
saying here is obvious, it follows naturally
on the saying of R. Joshua b. Levi which
deals with a similar theme.
The first reaction of the Sudanese
Government was to denounce the United
Nations for "negligence and impotence," and
to say that its 400 troops in the Congo
would be taken home. The reaction can be
understood. The Sudan's concern for its
men is natural. But this could hardly be
a # dignified exit. IF the UN is
blamed for being weak, it would be
more logical to send in more men,
not weaken it further by desertion.
The French have an inborn appreciation of good food and
the gusto which they derive from gastronomy is intellectual
and aesthetic as well as physical. There is the same finesse
about their feeding, the same subtle delicacy of touch,
the same unfailing sense of proportion as exists among
her writers, music composers and other exponents of
things that are typically French.
He understood the whole apparatus with an exact and
meticulous comprehension that could only have come from a man
who used the system - and used it with power and authority.
The appalling thing about the Germans is that they can kid them-
selves and feel a sense of righteousness when their hands are
PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough
over West Germany's cash offer to help
America's balance of payments position.
He said bluntly in Washington yester-
day that the offer - 357million - was
not good enough. And he indicated
that his Government would try to get
Germany to pay more. He did not
mention personal talks with Dr.
Adenauer, the West German Chancellor.
On this reading what Mr. Gollancz calls
manoeuvring, and what we should call
cool-headed and inventive negotiation, is
a means not to destruction but to safety.
The Government's pompous little statement
on Northern Rhodesia does not say much,
but it says what is necessary - that
the Northern Rhodesia Constitution is
open to revision. This is news, however
much the Government tries to disguise
it by saying that the revision would be
Informal talks at Lancaster House will
resume today. PRESIDENT KENNEDY today
defended the appointment of a Negro as
his Housing Minister. It has aroused strong
opposition from the anti-Negro senators of the
Deep South. The negro is Mr. Robert #
Weaver of New York. One of his tasks will
be to see there is no racial discrimination
in Government and State housing
IT is mid-morning on a Dublin Sunday. The streets
are tranquilly sunny and still, for the town
is at Mass. Most of it. In the front room of
a house in Anglesey-road is a congregation who
never actually got to church, but who are
gathered with devotion around Brendan Behan
A small panel was formed, not on a formally representative
basis but rather of energetic and concerned individuals,
from various levels in the firm. In due course
the panel decided to seek further insight into the
problems faced by older workers, and approached
those seventy years of age or older.
For in the old order of things, men designed
and worked lace as well as women and
special schools were set up to teach lace-
making not only to young girls, but to little
boys as well. Whole families made their
livelihood by lace-making and consequently
a folklore of song, festival and courtship grew
up around the lace industry.
Cut this piece of hardboard so that it
fits up against the front legs of the
chair. The seat rests across the upper two
cross pieces and is made of 1/2 in. plywood
glued and panel pinned in position, measurements
being taken directly from the work. Fig. 4
shows the framework for the back which
is made from 1 1/4 in. by 1/2 in. timber.
"Against this background must be taken Mr.
Kaunda's repeated statements that all he is
doing is in the name of non-violence," said
Sir Roy. "I am now compelled to say that
I don't accept his good faith." He said
Mr. Kaunda must know that his statements
had stimulated violence, but he had done
Seed is sown, or seedlings are pricked out into them
in the normal way, the only real difference
being that more of the watering is done through a
rose to avoid breaking the blocks with a spout
of water. First-class plants of tomatoes,
cucumbers, marrows, melons, cauliflowers,
celery and onions, may all be raised in soil
blocks; so can such flowering plants as
dahlias, chrysanthemums, salvias, sweet peas,
lupins and numerous others.
There were two other sources of public revenue -
first, the Church, which wisely followed the lead
of the Commons and in its own Convocations
granted equivalent contributions, and second,
the foreign merchants, with whom the King's
officials had formerly made private bargains
at 'colloquies of merchants', and whose
payments were now authorized by parliamentary
sanction at a rate roughly fifty per cent in
excess of the rate for native merchants.
Does one, however, know who first thought of boiling
water and food? The ancient Britons, I believe, used to
make water hot by dropping a red-hot poker into it,
because their pots would not stand fire; but Jacob
must have had one that would, because Esau sold
his birthright to him for a mess of pottage - and
then we hear of the fleshpots of Egypt after
A pleasant life truly!... It so happens that
I have an Italian who is perhaps the best
Valet de Chambre that ever was. But he has
not one word of English.' While he was writing
this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs, and
the temporary assumption of the government
by the Duke of Wellington.
But the Duke is wrong when he implies that young people
prefer unskilled jobs. Countless numbers who want training
are denied it. One area electricity board in 1958
offered six craft apprenticeships and received 450
applications, of whom 100 were considered suitable by
the board. There were only 17 vacancies for the 58
boys who passed the Admiralty exams for Rosyth
Lastly, we suggest certain power tools and
machines, the choice of which will
depend partly upon the space available
in the workshop, the amount one
is prepared to pay, and the type of
work a man normally does. First,
however, a word of advice generally.
Do not buy so-called cheap tools or
machines. They never are cheap in the
long run. They may be inaccurate,
Start by making the two side frames from 1 in. by 1 1/4 in. planed
timber as shown in Fig. 1. Although the timber will have already
been machine planed, remember to go over each piece with
a smoothing plane, otherwise the marks left by the cutters
will show up after painting. The dimensions given enable the
feeding tray to slide over a 30 in. table, but the height
Sir Francis is to hand over to Sir Richard
as from Nov. 1. The hand-over, due in
September, was delayed because of the
Berlin crisis. Mr. Watkinson and his advisers
felt the change would be unwise at a
moment # when attention had to be
concentrated on possible need for important
military operations. For this reason Sir
Francis stayed on, and # sacrificed
A POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT writes: Ban-the-
bomb demonstrators thronged the Central
Lobby of the House of Commons last
night and formed a queue stretching
for more than 200 yards outside
in Old Palace Yard. About 2,000
lobbied M.P.s and harangued them
DESPITE the steady influx of substitutes
since the end of the war, clay pots are
still in greatest demand. It is mostly
in the smaller sizes that the substitutes
have made headway, and although
numerous small clay pots are used each
year, they are fewer than they were 10
years ago. In the larger sizes there is still
no real substitute for clay that can be
obtained at a comparable price, except the
bituminized paper pots which are used on
commercial nurseries for growing tomatoes
A fascinating study also opens up in the dietary
welcomed by men of genius as well as the foods for
which they have had an aversion. Shelley, for example,
had a great contempt for animal food, believing that
it # impaired the intellectual faculties. Bunyan's
breakfast and supper consisted of a piece of coarse bread
The amount of the backward tilt and
also the height is left to personal choice
and the width is best taken directly
from the work to ensure a good fit.
Fix the piece A to the sides first
with glue and panel pins and then fit
the frame together with the piece
B temporarily in place on the chair
Navigator Sid is a tower of strength when
newly-weds Ian Carmichael and Janette Scott let
loose their ancient houseboat on a honeymoon trip down
the river. The film starts off brightly enough but,
half-way through, the plot (as well as the boat) springs
a near-disastrous leak. Familiar members of Britain's
repertory team of comedy character-actors jump through
equally familiar hoops to mild laughter.
Strangely enough, the Berlin audience received
the film with extreme coolness, much preferring
Jean-Luc Godard's disappointing "Une Femme
est une Femme," a ninety-one minute hymn
to "Vogue," "Cahiers du Cinema," and the
worst aspects of the American cinema. From
a brilliantly funny start, the work fizzles
out into a series of repetitious sight-gags
and personal jokes incomprehensible to the
uninitiated (including four plugs for Charles
The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's
play A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester
and directed by Mr. Tony Richardson, who is
also part-author with Miss Delaney of the
script, and the great advantages to be
derived from this unity of conception and
control are everywhere apparent.
They will not work in union. If physical power, spiritual power
and visionary power is not united, man will remain in his heart
selfish and think only of one's personal advantage to
gratify selfish aims, then each man will gather-in
for himself only, instead of all to help to gather your
This last point is certainly important because almost
everyone has come to recognise that machines
are not only an economic necessity, but that a
great deal of drudgery can be avoided by the
installation of a power tool. As an elementary
example, surely no one can pretend to enjoy
ripping out parts from hardwood. Most men
would unhesitatingly use a machine if it
'It is a pity,' said Mart, 'because it would have been
a good address.' Now, after a woman's radar look,
she decided Pierre would solve our problems. This
yellow as lemon peel, wrestling with some gnawing rat
of an illness, man of all trades, married to a commanding
lady who loved small talk and the discreet
Cecil gritted his teeth and glowered at the
inequity of Miss Cheesecake well-nigh bathing
in tax-free champagne whilst he had to go
easy on the immersion heater. 'What is it,
Cecil? Don't you feel well?' his mother
asked solicitously. 'You do look tired.
Go and get yourself a drink.' 'Don't
fuss, mother! I'm quite well and no more
tired than usual, and we finished the gin
last week, you know that.'
The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's
play A Taste of Honey opens at the
Leicester Square Theatre tomorrow. It has
been produced and directed by Mr. Tony
Richardson, who is also part-author with
Miss Delaney of the script, and the great
advantages to be derived from this unity
of conception and control are everywhere
By the end of the month he still delighted in
Naples. He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as
much as his health permitted him to enjoy
anything. 'The Pearl', he wrote, 'is arrived, which
is a great resource. Vesuvius seems to be tired;
he is going out fast.... What a gay, lively
people, and what a busy town. At Rome, every
other man was a priest: here the priest is
1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change
in my eye, particularly as the troops are
There was always the spice of an orgy
in those Roman feasts, for instance, with
all their peacocks and nightingales'
tongues; unreasonable surfeit, too, in the
elaborate fashion of eating brought
out of Italy into France, we are told,
by Catherine de Medici. The peasant in
those days, as ever, ate sparingly, but
generously enough in his own fashion,
save at feast times, when he, too, let
himself go; and it was from his simpler
God grant, however, that I may be a false prophet &; that
all may go well. Sir R. Peel was here, I understand,
but an express took him off yesterday.'
While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter
in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for
an effective alleviation of his painful malady. None
of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had
been subjected ever since the symptoms had first
shown themselves seventeen years before had had the
In the days when most people were born,
lived and died within the boundaries of
the village, it was not difficult for anybody
to live a day at a time. Even those who
held a high and responsible office lived in
far greater simplicity than their successors.
When news from the Continent took days,
from America weeks, from the Far East,
months, even a Prime Minister could go to
sleep in blissful ignorance of what might
be happening at the other end of England,
Even worse is to laugh. Tremendous damage may be done to a child
by laughing at what are very real fears. As adults, we know
that their fears are groundless, indeed to us they appear laughable,
but to a child they are very real. Not that I am suggesting
that children should be molly-coddled - they must be made
to face their fears, to see through them and come out on the
It went, perhaps, some distance beyond
most treatments of its subject by
attempting to generate a melodramatic
inevitability which left its central character
and the world around him in complete,
unredeemable desolation. We could, perhaps,
say whether or not the attempt succeeded
of we had a little more faith in the
way in which Mr. Ferris manipulated
In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by an old
man. Here it is a young homosexual, estranged from
women but yet moved by a strong maternal instinct to
the unborn child as much as to the expectant mother,
who acts as a protector and comforter to her in her hour
of need. He shares her room and gives her his forlorn
gift of companionship and sympathy - "you need
someone to love you while you are looking for
Two emissaries from the Laotian Government
of Prince Boun Oum have arrived in
Phnom Penh, Cambodia, to invite Prince
Souvanna Phouma, the former Prime Min-
ister, to return to Laos. No details of
their mission have been disclosed, but it
was reported earlier in Laos that Prince
Boun Oum was considering asking
Prince Souvanna Phouma to join his
'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble! What
infatuation! Personally I am indifferent, but I really tremble
for my country! I may be mistaken, 1tho' I cannot but
fear that the exasperation of the People will be so
great at the return of Ultratoryism, that the Commons
House upon a dissolution, which must be had, will be a
mass of Radicalism, & then God knows what may happen....
A sum of 160,000 was demanded - a staggering figure
to mediaeval eyes. It was determined that 100,000
was a fairer target, and the Parliament agreed to find
two-thirds of this sum providing the clergy supplied
the remainder. The method of assessment to which the
Commons agreed was that of the first poll-tax. The manifest
injustice of this method had been to a certain degree
corrected by the sliding scale of the second poll-tax,
but this lesson was ignored, and the injustice trebled in
weight by a flat-rate tax at treble the rate - every adult
had to pay three groats, but this time an adult was re-
'But I'm NOT irritable!' He rushed down
the stairs and, snatching the case, ran back
upstairs with it. 'And I've NOT been
extravagant.' "Naughty!' she called
after him. 'Mother knows her boy.
In fact, the Tories made it worse now
for the sick and needy than Labour had
to make it in 1950. And as a percentage
of social service expenditure, health had
fallen from 28.5 to 23.1 per cent. Then
Mr. Brown swung his attack directly to
the unsmiling Mr. Powell. He demanded
that instead of taking it out of the
patients Mr. Powell should take ruthless
action against the drug making industry, #
whose profits had risen by up to 400 per
What happened to the new book partially tape-recorded
by his publishers in March of last year? Still a skeleton. Yet
I have before me now a 12,000-word manuscript of
a book planned to be called Confessions of an Irish
Rebel which was delivered to his agents in June. IT
begins: "There was a party to celebrate Deirdre's
return from her abortion in Bristol."
Carole Shelley as the newly-wed and Larry Noble
as Smiler Perkins were the most laughable. They
alone used a sharp edge to their humour and cut
through the gormless standing corn around them. Perhaps
it was accidental - I hope not. If ever a bag of
humour needed a thorough shaking up the Whitehall
farce is it when it comes to television.
This is not a filmed play. It has been
conceived throughout in terms of the cinema,
and again and again it is the visual qualities
of the story, and the marriage of the central
characters to their background, which bring
the film so vividly to life. In Fanny, which
also has its premiere tomorrow, the director,
Mr. Joshua Logan, attempted but failed to create
the atmosphere of a city.
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even today, in
the 1960s, no cure has been found for the
6tic douloureux. As early as 1830, when
Anglesey believed himself to be on the
point of death, the new German curative
method known as homoeopathy had been
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law, the
diplomatist Lord Ponsonby, had written to advise Anglesey
to give the system a trial, adding that it was being cultivated
with extraordinary success in France and Italy, and that he
himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied
under its founder, the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann.
Many amateur gardeners might improve their
results by buying a small hand-operated soil
block maker and use the money saved on
buying small pots to improve their composts.
The various types of small paper pots are very
useful for short-term operations, but are
inclined to collapse if the plants are in them
Medical evidence established that Mary
Money had been dead for about an
hour before her body was discovered,
and this matched reasonably well with
the timetable of the train in question.
More important evidence came from a
signalman at Purley Oaks, who had
seen, as the train passed his box, a
couple struggling in a first-class
compartment; but he seemed to have
been used to seeing couples engaged in
The Minister regards the recent trend
of recruiting figures as encouraging.
He is confident the aim can be achieved.
While the possibility of an eventual return
to National Service in some form
cannot be entirely discounted, he does
not agree that the point has been reached
where this need even be considered. If
National Service is ever resorted to,
engagement would probably have to be for
Wagner was a highly practical feeder. He ate very fast,
placing his food in his mouth and gulping it down as
he talked. Brigham Young would make a dinner on tripe
which he washed down with beer. A writer who had dinner
with Dickens says the menu was Whitstable oysters, a brown
sole, a baked leg of mutton with oyster & veal stuffing and a
It was quite amusing to see how much
the children enjoyed the service, and I heard
of parents or faithful nurses threaten any
naughty child with the penalty of not being
allowed to come to the Children's Church
on Sunday afternoon. I hope the threat
kept them good in the week, but anyway
they were a most delightful lot, and
it is a great joy to meet them now
fifty years afterwards when so many
are parents or even grandparents
Monsieur V's house was immediately
surrounded by firemen and other officials,
but there was no Monsieur V. He telephoned
a few minutes later from a nearby village,
apologising for the trouble, but explaining
that the walls were porous and the
gas had escaped. General relief was
expressed, but Monsieur V (this was
actually reported in the next issue) returned
home and shot himself, leaving a note
which again left his household goods
I would not want to either, but if she wants to get through
the day without becoming exhausted, she will be well advised to
sit down quietly and make a list of everything she has got to
do, note the order in which they can most conveniently be
done (or must be done because of other predetermined factors
- you must, for example, do your shopping on the morning of
Can we then frame some 'rules' which may enable us to live life
as fully as possible, without having our energy sapped by un-
necessary weariness. (a) Order makes for a decrease in tiredness.
We have a saying 'My head will never save my feet'. Time
after time we forget something and have to go back
Only Mr. Lucas's actions, therefore, arose explicably
from appreciable motives. The rest, one feels, were
driven to effective action by the author in spite
of the ineffectuality with which he had
endowed them. One hopes that he is not
asking us to believe that, because of their odd
accents, they act oddly like the queer foreigners
Alf Barton, who in 1911 was presented
with a book on the life of Marx,
and a gold purse in recognition of his
work for the movement, was later
known to say that it was not ne-
cessary to understand Marxism in order to
understand socialism, though at this time
he was a keen member of the B.S.P..
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law, the
diplomatist Lord Ponsonby, had written to advise Anglesey
to give the system a trial, adding that it was being
cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy,
and that he himself was being treated under a doctor
who had studied under its founder, the aged Dr. Samuel
Against these advantages the codex was fragile and
might be bulky. It is sometimes possible to tell
whether or not a particular text was written on
a roll or a codex. Rolls were prepared for
writing, but any papyrus left unused at the
end could be cut off. If the text was longer than
the roll, a sheet could easily be glued on.
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has
taken a town in the industrial North of
England and has made it live. The shabby
streets and wet pavements, the school
play-grounds, the public monuments and
the rubbish strewn canals - even the worn
head-stones in the churchyard, "sacred to
the memory of" - are seen as an inte-
gral part of the story.
They nodded at each other and Sir Edward
rose to say that the Chancellor would bear
Mr. Wilson's offer in mind. Guy Eden writes:
Treasury experts are already working on
the scheme. Profits of genuine investors
in industry will not be affected, but only
quick in-and-out speculator deals.
FRANK FOULKES, Communist president
of the ETU, refused yesterday to
"commit suicide" at the TUC's
Suggesting that a total T.U.C.
membership of eight million was a "poor
show" compared with some countries, he
argued that the position needed examination.
BEFORE President Kennedy met Mr.
Macmillan yesterday morning he was given
the views of a wide section of the
British people about Polaris submarine
bases in this country. An open letter
written by Earl Russell hoping that the
Today, for example, the Foreign Minister of Indo-
nesia arrived in Belgrade as the guest of the Yugoslav
Foreign Minister. In fact such Yugoslav activity has
been # particularly intensified in the past year
or so and though so far, apart from joint action
in the United Nations, these exchanges have not
been seen on any wider basis, President Tito
is known for some time to have favoured a
conference of neutralist leaders.
It went, perhaps, some distance beyond
most treatments of its subject by attempting
to generate a melodramatic inevitability
which left its central character and the
world around him in complete, unredeemable
desolation. We could, perhaps, say whether
or not the attempt succeeded if we had a
little more faith in the way in which Mr.
Ferris manipulated his characters.
This director is at last being re-evaluated and
given his proper place in the history of the
German film. Most charming was his tongue-in-cheek
"Unheimliche Geschichten" (1920), five ghost stories
with a light touch, and there was much to admire
in "Dreyfus" (1930) and the virtually unknown
but extremely important "1914" (1931), which
tries to show that it took more than just
Germany to start the First World War.
This is not a filmed play. It has been con-
ceived throughout in terms of the cinema,
and again and again it is the visual qualities
of the story, and the marriage of the central
characters to their background, which bring
the film so vividly to life. In Fanny, which
also has its premiere tomorrow, the director,
Mr. Joshua Logan, attempted but failed to
create the atmosphere of a city.
Among other incidents he was banned from New
York's St. Patrick's Day parade as a "disorderly
person." He was in a fight after telling a
Canadian, during a chat about space-flight:
"Ireland will put a shillelagh into orbit, Israel
will put a matzo ball into orbit, and Lichtenstein
will put a postage stamp into orbit before you
Canadians put up a mouse."
In some ways it will be a testing occasion
for him, although some think his position
unassailable simply because there is no one
else in sight to supplant him. So the con-
ference will concentrate on laying the
foundations on which to win the next
election. The rally comes at a time
when in spite of carefully worded state-
ments by the Prime Minister there is an
air of electoral expectancy.
Mr. Macmillan explained that he had deliber-
ately refrained during the summer from
recalling Parliament or ordering mobilisation
by proclamation, such as would be
necessary to bring the British Army of the Rhine
on to a fully active footing. That
would have created a thoroughly unde-
sirable atmosphere of panic. He thought
that the situation was rather more
A guard reported that at East Croydon
he had seen what was accepted as the
same couple sitting close together in
a first-class compartment of the
train from London Bridge of which
he was in charge. The two could
have joined this train by taking
one from Victoria and changing
at East Croydon. He also believed
that they had still been together at
South Croydon, and he remembered
Addressing the annual congress of the National Union
of General and Municipal Workers, he said he felt
sure the Labour movement was coming round in
support of his views. Obviously conscious of the fierce and
widespread resentment over the U.S. Polaris base in
Britain, Mr. Gaitskell said that he even noticed that
supporters of unilateral nuclear disarmament were changing
their tactics by switching most of their emphasis on
In his first Hollywood picture, "Let's Make Love," he
was swamped by the know-how of Marilyn Monroe
and Yves Montand. Against this couple Frankie, in
a cardboard role, didn't stand a chance. Now comes
"The Right Approach" (Rialto, "A"), and it's a glum
business. He plays an aspiring actor - a
selfish, arrogant, brash, ambitious, unscrupulous heel -
who would tread on anybody's neck to get a break in
A summary of the story can give almost
indication of the scope of Wicki's artistry. He
tells his story best in the faces of his crowds,
recording every wrinkle and drop of sweat
with brutal honesty, building up to a
tremendous climax in the island orgy.
Here, the guests arrive in ghost-like yachts,
the wildly flapping white sails slashed by
the glaring beacon of a lighthouse.
Catherine looked at the books lying
around his room, and asked if she
might borrow the stories of Isaac Babel
to read on the train. Catherine is 13.
I suggested she might find them dif-
ficult, but she said, 'Philip reads them,
doesn't he?' During the journey I read
newspapers and watched her pretty
frowning face as she turned the
pages of Babel, for she was determined
to let nothing get between her and
It was the battered and broken body of a woman.
He sent word straight away to near-by Merstham
Station, and a stretcher party took the body to
the Feathers Hotel to await identification.
Was it a case of suicide, where some unhappy soul
had walked deliberately into the blackness and
into the path of some train? This hardly seemed
likely, since, when she was examined by a local
doctor, the woman, young, small, and rather plump,
was found to have her own silk scarf drawn
almost tight enough to strangle her, and the ends
thrust in her mouth like a gag.
However, something inimical in the girl's look
put Vittoria on guard. 'Santa Maria! These spying
eyes!' she thought, bitterly. Doria was continually
stopping on the way, to point out, with childish pride,
objects of beauty or interest. Vittoria, on the
fringe of the party, caught snatches of this
information, which held no interest for her:
'... now this sapphire ...
Yet in spite of the fact that his ideas did his
business no good George would never conceal them.
He was a socialist and believed in the right
of the working class to control their own destiny, and
said so. Being a craftsman and a skilled man,
George won many prizes, and though some people
would have nothing to do with him, others
would, and the comrades helped in many
It arose during talks following
President Kennedy's report to the British
Prime Minister of the outcome of his recent
visit to Paris. There General de Gaulle had made
clear that he would accept Britain into the
Common Market only if there were no conditions
laid down to meet the Commonwealth
and other reservations.
Compared with 1958, the expenditure index for 1959
showed increases of 4 to 6 per cent for couples without
children and those with one child, and much smaller
changes for couples with several children. The quantity
index, which has risen only slowly since 1956, was
almost unchanged in 1959 for couples with two or more
children, but rose by 3 per cent in the older two-adult
households and by 1-2 per cent for younger childless
couples and couples with one child.
I rivet my gunwales together through the side of the hull
with copper nails and roves. It greatly improves the
appearance and the strength. Paint with good marine primer,
undercoat and at least one coat of finishing paint.
WHEN an assortment of differently coloured materials are cut
into a variety of shapes they can be combined by either
making fabric pictures or designs.
In April of that year his first wife's brother-
in-law, the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby, had
written to advise Anglesey to give the system
a trial, adding that it was being cultivated
with extraordinary success in France and
Italy, and that he himself was being
treated under a doctor who had studied
under its founder, the aged Dr. Samuel
ONLY a man wrapped in the impenetrable cocoon of what he regards
as a divine mission could have spoken of apartheid as "a
policy of good neighbourliness." We may be sure that
he is not being hypocritical. That is what he
really believes. A good neighbour to those Africans
who, under apartheid, will be forced back to
their tribal reserves with no prospect but a
cramped and primitive existence.
They intend to sit outside the Ministry of Defence. It is
their protest against the H-bomb. They ought to have a
pleasant time. The weather forecast is good; except for them,
Whitehall should be deserted. And they will have a fine view
of St. James's Park, with its placid lake, pelicans,
rare ducks, and other wild life.
The General Council of the Trades Union
Congress should therefore consider the
matter. Consideration should also be given
to the regrouping of unions and the
modification of their structures to
meet the growing concentration of
capital. Mr. Cooper argued that a
common industrial contribution was
urgent - particularly in unions serving
workers in the same industry - along
These support costs are a big drain on
America's dollar reserves. Dr. Adenauer's
answer is the once-and-for-all cash
offer of 357 million. President Kennedy's
rejection of it is a painful blow to the
West German Government. It will now have
to pay more - and increase taxation to do
so - or run the obvious # risks in upsetting
the new American administration.
This is expected eventually to replace the
Fiat G-91, and the F 104 Starfighter,
the backbone of the German Air
Arguably, the dramatist has committed a
technical error in allowing Irene to speak
for herself; we would be altogether clearer
in our minds about her if she remained a
flawed but beautiful enigma, seen but not
heard. However, Miss Pinkie Johnstone
makes her few brief scenes effective, and
Mr. Dinsdale Landen, in the longest and most
exacting role, that of the sergeant, gives a
performance of rare intelligence and restrained
The team is composed of experienced
negotiators in several fields. Sir Pier-
son Dixon has a wide reputation as
a skilful backstage negotiator since
his days as Britain's chief UN dele-
gate. Second in command is Mr.
Eric Roll, 53-year-old Deputy Secre-
tary at the Ministry of Agriculture,
Food, and Fisheries. The Foreign Office
is represented by Sir Roderick Barclay
Though they may gather some Left-wing support, a
large majority of Labour 0M Ps are likely to turn
down the Foot-Griffiths resolution. Mr. Foot's line
will be that as Labour 0M Ps opposed the Govern-
ment Bill which brought life peers into existence, they
should not now put forward nominees. He believes
that the House of Lords should be abolished and
that Labour should not take any steps which would
appear to "prop up" an out-dated institution.
The other TUC demands: Five leading
Communists must not hold office for five
years; Sub-committees set up to strip
secretary John Byrne of his powers must
disband in ten days. These the ETU
executive rejected as "wholly unacceptable"
and "unwarranted" interference." But it
agreed to postpone operation of the sub-
The word Shamir was used as a
personal name (Git. 68a). The Hebrew
word "SHAMIR" means guarded or preser-
ved. Therefore, the real man, who
regards himself as insignificant, as the
prayer says: "What am I? A worm", he
is the Shamir and such a man fulfils
the Shmah, loves the Lord God with
all his heart, and with all his soul and
with all his might and studies the
For instance, in Canada we use galvanised nails
in place of screws. We just bend them over and clamp
firmly by using a hammer on each side. Over here I've
always used brass screws, which are more expensive. The first
job is to make your moulds. In Fig. 1 it quotes 3/4 in. five-ply,
but to save money any scrap may be used, and if this
is nailed and glued together strongly, it may be marked
This surprising statement was a sharp about-
face from his warnings during the
Presidential election campaign. He claimed
slackness in the Eisenhower Administration
had caused America to lag behind Russia
in nuclear development. President Kennedy
did his best to avoid giving Pressmen
a direct answer. George Brown
CHILDREN TWO men who are poles apart
in personality last night dominated
Last year saw the defeat of two Conservative
provincial governments, Quebec and New Brunswick, and
in the four federal by-elections last October the party
fared badly. They are now faced with four other by-
elections, one at Esquimalt Saanich, British Columbia,
one in Leeds, Ontario, and the other two in the
Maritimes - Restigouche Madawaska, New Brunswick,
and Kings, Prince Edward Island.
Arguably, the dramatist has committed a technical
error in allowing Irene to speak for herself;
we would be altogether clearer in our minds
about her if she remained a flawed but beautiful
enigma, seen but not heard. However, Miss Pinkie
Johnstone makes her few brief scenes effective, and
Mr. Dinsdale Landen, in the longest and most
of rare intelligence and restrained power.
He told them that their conception of social
services was wholly different - fundamentally
different from that of Labour. They would
provide an ambulance service for the absolutely
wretched - but it would not be too comfortable
nor too easy to get. Answering jeers that
it was Labour which first put a ceiling
on health spending and started charges, Mr.
Brown reminded the hostile Government benches
that was done in 1950 because of the financial
strain of the Korean war.
Mr Gaitskell added that agreement with the
unilateralists was not possible, though
he respected their views. He saw by reports
that "those who organise these things" were
recommending the supporters of unilateral nuclear
disarmament to shift the emphasis of
their intervention away from straight opposition
to the official document on to opposition
The edge of this sheet was attached to a wooden dowel
and the sheet wound round this central pin. The roll made
a simple and serviceable book. It was robust - the number
which have survived the centuries is ample evidence of
this - and it was easily stored. It had two disadvantages. It
was generally a single-sided form of book, and it was not
an easy form of book in which to find a
Instead, the kings will remain in London
and wait to hear the conference's proposals.
Then their views will be transmitted back.
MR. BUTLER, the Home Secretary, has decided
to meet head-on the biggest challenge to
Government authority yet presented by the
"Ban-the-Bomb" demonstrators. Police leave
has been cancelled and secret plans prepared
to deal with the mass sit-down rally planned
for Sunday in Parliament-square by the
Committee of 100, the anti-nuclear arms
Again, don't forget to glue. Now put on the keel and
the rubbing strakes and you are ready to lift the boat off
the moulds. You won't want them again for this boat, so
shift them right out of the way. Place the boat right side
up on two boxes or trestles of convenient height for
There is a curd of morning smoke and
a muffled bell taps the sky. Here we
stopped, as in fine weather we always
stopped. Down below is the village of
Cagnes, but between are pockets of
heat and cold like the hands of
friends or strangers, and a flurry of
early smells, the dark bosoms of
beech and the thin pine fingers
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even today,
in the 1960s, no cure has been found for
the 6tic douloureux. As early as 1830, when
Anglesey believed himself to be on the
point of death, the new German curative
method known as homoeopathy had been
brought to his notice.
But they were so convinced and they
have had to take the consequences. Mean-
while in Germany itself the course of
the campaign has dismayed a good
many people: they too will be glad
when the polling stations close.
We parked the Lambretta opposite the
Negresco, and went to the beach to
have a swim. Amazing bedlam rocked
in our eyes. The sea boiled with waves,
they galloped to the walls and spumed
over the Promenade des Anglais. A huge
crowd had collected. There were firemen
and policemen and ambulances, and the
eyes of the spectators were hard with
By the end of the month he still delighted in
Naples. He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as
much as his health permitted him to enjoy any-
thing. 'The Pearl', he wrote, 'is arrived, which
is a great resource. Vesuvius seems to be tired;
# he is going out fast.... What a gay, lively
people, and what a busy town. At Rome, every
other man was a priest: here the priest is
1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change
in my eye, particularly as the troops are very
Supplies of meat and dairy produce were
substantially higher last year than in 1959.
Lucky, lucky housewives! To have such a
splendid variety of goods to choose from.
Not so long ago older folk were reminding
young wives, # harassed by
shortages, of the good old days of
abundance. Now it is mother who
picks up recipes from # her daughter.
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir Francis Burdett
described to Anglesey a year or two later as 'more like a God
upon earth than a human being', had an increasing number
of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of
Europe. One of these was the Neapolitan, Dr Giuseppe Mauro,
whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834.
Alongside these divisions a force of over 600
Starfighters provided by the Americans is growing
up. These "fighters" are in fact fighter bombers
which could launch an atomic attack on
Eastern Europe. By 1963 the Germans plan to have
nine missile battalions, with 288 missiles and
36 firing ramps, including weapons like Matador
(range 950 miles), also provided by the Americans.
By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples. He told
Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health
permitted him to enjoy anything. 'The Pearl', he wrote, 'is
arrived, which is a great resource. Vesuvius seems to be
tired; he is going out fast.... What a gay, lively people,
and what a busy town. At Rome, every other man was
a priest: here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a
favourable change in my eye, particularly as the troops
To others, the long hours of the night bring
only a disturbed tossing and turning
which causes them to wake feeling worse
than when they went to bed. We may begin
to understand this a little better when we
realize that tiredness itself is largely in
the mind. Very few people, under normal
conditions, work themselves to a standstill.
At the same time that unity cannot be
established on a false basis, or by creating
further confusion within the movement. Unity
will never be established on the basis of leaders
being a law unto themselves and opposing
conference decisions when it suits their own
convenience. Unity can never be established by
any formula uniting those who oppose German
troops being trained on British soil and Polaris,
and those who are for this policy - which is the
same as that of the Tory Government.
This is what I mean by "getting things the wrong way
round". He is far more likely to find out about how
his own mind works by looking at other people's.
For although looking inwards (or "introspecting"
as it is called), is not entirely ruled out,
nowadays most psychologists would agree that it is
one of the most unreliable methods of getting
At one and the same time, therefore, occur the beat
of the apex, the thickening of the heart walls, and
the forcible expulsion of their contained blood by the
contraction of the ventricles. Going on in Chapter Three
to the movement of the arteries, likewise gauged from
the dissections of living animals, Harvey noted that
contraction of the heart and the apex beat occur in
systole, simultaneously with dilatation of the arteries
and of the artery-like vein, and expulsion of the
It was signed by 60 Labour M.P.s, many
of them Left-wing # sympathisers.
It condemned "the pollution of the world's
atmosphere as a crime against humanity."
A personal letter of protest against the
tests from Canon Collins, chairman
of the Campaign for Nuclear
Disarmament, addressed to Mr.
# Khruschev, was also taken to the
Present-day pots are better finished, do
not get dirty so readily and are easier to
wash. The deep rims make for neater and
safer stacking, though they are still
expensive and still get broken. On the
other hand, there is really no replacement
for the larger sizes, so they have the
decided advantage of being the only
suitable container available in quantity
# 'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble!
What infatuation! Personally I am indifferent, but I really
tremble for my country! I may be mistaken, 1tho' I
cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People
will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism,
that the Commons House upon a dissolution, which
must be had, will be a mass of Radicalism, & then
God knows what may happen....
God grant, however, that I may be a false
prophet &; that all may go well. Sir R. Peel
was here, I understand, but an express took
him off yesterday.' While he was in Naples
there had opened a new chapter in the
history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an
effective alleviation of his painful malady.
None of the numerous conventional remedies to
which he had been subjected ever since the
symptoms had first shown themselves seventeen
years before had had the slightest effect.
Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at
Lancaster House despite the crisis which had
blown up. He has now revealed his full plans
to the Africans and Liberals attending. These
plans do not give the Africans the overall majo-
rity they are seeking. African delegates are
studying them today. The conference will meet
to discuss the function of a proposed House
Two methods can be used to join the crochet to the linen:
(a) Button Stitch round the outline of basting stitches,
the knotted part of the button stitch lying on the
outside edge. Oversew crochet to button stitch.
(b) Turn under a small hem, with fold lying on line
of basting stitches. Work a row of dc all round
this hem, with 3 dc at each corner.
It could be curtain up on two success stories. Of
the old Palace. And Barry and Eric. DONS at
Cambridge want the study of agriculture to become
an honours degree course. Farming is Britain's
most vital industry. It is increasingly dependent
on new techniques - and on the universities to
provide men of knowledge and skill.
In April of that year his first wife's
brother-in-law, the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby,
had written to advise Anglesey to give the
system a trial, adding that it was being
cultivated with extraordinary success in
France and Italy, and that he himself was
being treated under a doctor who had
studied under its founder, the aged
Measures agreed so far include: 1. A mass
call-out of police, special constables
and reserves, with 750 policemen posted
from outlying districts to stations in
the area - West End Central, Bow-street,
May I suggest that you have proved that
right! Congratulations! And away you go into
your speech. Take some thought, too, for your ending.
Thank you for listening to me so patiently. A political
candidate often used that finish. No wonder he
didn't get in! Instead he might have ended
this way: Well, those are my views.
This man was known to have left his home on February 11, and
to have been away for four days. Not in itself a crime, but, added to
the knowledge that he had gone shopping in the town of Guil-
dford for a false moustache, it left him with something to
explain. His story was that he had left home to try to
join the Army (presumably feeling that a moustache might enhance
his military bearing), and this was accepted.
The shock of expulsion from the
Commonwealth now seems to be the only
way left to try to bring home to the people of
South Africa that Dr. Verwoerd is leading them
to disaster. It may be that the Commonwealth
Prime Ministers will decide against this final
step. If that is their decision they should also
go unequivocally on record that they regard
apartheid as evil and indefensible.
But back, Mr. Hammarskjold is determined,
they must go. The best news for the Congo
would be agreement between its rival
political leaders. Through the patient efforts
of UN conciliators they are meeting for
the first time, in Malagasy (formerly
Madagascar). THE world will sigh with
relief when this strife-torn land gets
itself a government which all outsiders
This is not a filmed play. It has been con-
ceived throughout in terms of the cinema, and
again and again it is the visual qualities of
the story, and the marriage of the central
characters to their background, which bring the
film so vividly to life. In Fanny, which also
has its premiere tomorrow, the director, Mr.
Joshua Logan, attempted but failed to
create the atmosphere of a city.
The production by Bill Duncalf
compressed a long and sometimes rambling
story into a concentrated comprehensive
survey of a life work. P. J. K. HANS WERNER
HENZE'S "Elegy for Young Lovers" is the first
unambiguously "contemporary" work to be
admitted to the Glyndebourne canon. By no
means a masterpiece, it is in many respects
a representative modern work and the composer
is a highly skilled manipulator of contemporary
idioms, with a strong sense of words and situation.
In any case, fahrenheit need not lose heart.
Once before, and that not so long ago, the
authorities ganged up to alter the habits
of the people. That effort was to enforce
the adoption of the twenty-four hour
clock. Then, also, the B.B.C. were
roped in. The only result was
that the well-meaning corporation
became very unpopular.
The next thing that Serena discovered was that
she could not afford to buy a house at all.
And this in spite of having at last managed
to save the ten percent needed. Or so she
thought, being then in possession of what
seemed to her the princely sum of six hund-
red pounds. The lawyer said:
This concept of slavery included Britain.
General Brauchitsch signed a directive
ordering that after the successful
invasion of our islands all the "able-bodied
male population between the ages of
seventeen and forty-five will, unless the
local situation calls for an exceptional
ruling, be interned and dispatched to the
Continent." The Baltic States were
to have been our destination.
The Press, many doctors and public were
denouncing the proposals. He quoted from
this letter which Mr. Gaitskell had received:
"My background is a doctor of 68, who
has practised medicine for 43 years, chiefly
as a panel doctor. "I am a lifelong
Conservative. I am horrified and amazed
by my party's proposal to prostitute the
whole principle of the State service and
to render that service a hardship to poor
Following Bruce Marshall's original novel with
considerable fidelity, the film tells the story
of a little monk who prays that a disrepu-
table night club near his church be re-
moved. One night his prayer is answered
and the offending establishment is suddenly
transplanted to an island in the North Sea.
But Father Malachias's troubles have only
begun. Instead of having the desired effect,
the miracle becomes exploited by a group
Even the bone cuff-links found beside the body, which
had at first been considered as belonging to the killer,
proved yet another red herring, for it was learned that
they had been borrowed by Elizabeth Camp from one
of her sisters. A young man from Reading named Marshall
had an uncomfortable time in the presence of the coroner.
Although his ideas were diametrically opposed
to those of parsons he got on wonderfully well
with them, particularly those who, like the Rev.
Conrad Noel, the eloquent leader of
the Church Socialist League, genuinely advocated
socialism. With such men, who had the
courage of their convictions and their
Christianity, common ground could be found.
When the sailing season was past, he sent
Pearl back to England, and returned
to Rome for the winter. In late
November, he was 'suffering as usual',
but hoped, he told Arthur, 'to find
this place agree with me better than
Naples. The journey has been against
me, as there has been much rain and
damp, but the temperature is high
& I have not yet thought of a fire....
When all seemed to be going well, a sortie surprised
moment had charge of the mine; the mine collapsed
fame and glory. Gaunt was compelled to return
even despised failure. The 'ribald' Londoners, who
Hawley, were also expressing their disappointment
comparing the failure of a subsidized duke
When Mr. Brown sat down Labour M Ps cheered for
a full minute - and even his bitterest opponents
on defence joined in. Mr. Powell devoted half his speech
to giving details of plans for improving the hospital service,
on which indeed the Government is making progress.
His basic defence of the Health Service cuts was that
"even after the proposed changes the net cost of the
service to the Exchequer will have increased over
What seems certain is that those who
advocate putting off any approach until
Mr Krushchev gives evidence of a change
of heart (whatever that may mean) would
have us run risks greater than the West
ought to run - and greater than President
Kennedy's most influential advisers seem
disposed to face. The real question is
what we should put to the Soviet
Government as a basis for talks: and
This emphasis on the legality of the former
Government suggests that all is not well
with the political and military leadership
of the pro-communists. Most of the
province of Xieng Khouang and the
tactically useful Plain of Jars, however,
appear still to be firmly in their hands.
The Government has claimed the
recapture of Vang Vieng, the pro-
communists' former base 60 miles
north of Vientiane, but this claim
A BAFFLED and bewildered little country
stands at the centre of an international
storm. Belgium is accused - without a
scrap of evidence - of being implicated in
the murder of Patrice Lumumba. Her
leaders are insulted, her embassies are
attacked in a score of countries.
"He is not going to agree to be bound over. That will
probably mean jail and, though frail, he is very fit and
will take the rigours of prison in his stride. He
hopes to be allowed to do some writing." Back at
the Press conference, Mr. Clark said two committee
members tried a "plant" call on suspect phone. They
discussed a sit-down at Watford at 5.30 p.m. - none
was planned but police turned up.
Only Mr. Lucas's actions, therefore, arose
explicably from appreciable motives. The
rest, one feels, were driven to effective
action by the author in spite of the
ineffectuality with which he had endowed
them. One hopes that he is not asking us
to believe that, because of their odd
accents, they act oddly like the queer
This man agreed that his engagement had
been broken off after one particular
tiff, but denied that he owed Miss Camp any
money. All the while the police were casting about
for a man who had been seen leaving the train
at Wandsworth. A passenger described this individual
as a man of about thirty, of medium height, with
a dark moustache, and wearing a frockcoat
The train drew into another station
and Cecil, with a further six stops
to go, was left almost alone in the
coach. He fumed as he recol-
lected the long correspondence he
had had with the Inland Reve-
nue in an effort to obtain
tax relief for a jacket used
solely in the office. 'If the jacket
is a condition of your employment,'
the Inspector had written, 'it may
qualify for relief.'
When the sailing season was past, he sent Pearl back to
England, and returned to Rome for the winter. In late
November, he was 'suffering as usual', but hoped, he told
Arthur, 'to find this place agree with me better than Naples.
The journey has been against me, as there has been much
rain and damp, but the temperature is high &; I have not
Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's United
National Independence Party (280,000 members)
and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's African National
Congress (400,000) will meet in London today
to discuss a common course of action.
Sir Roy is violently opposed to Africans
getting an elected majority in Northern
Rhodesia, but the Colonial Secretary, Mr. Iain
Macleod, is insisting on a policy of change.
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has
taken a town in the industrial North of
England and has made it live. The shabby
streets and wet pavements, the school play-
grounds, the public monuments and the
rubbish strewn canals - even the worn
head-stones in the churchyard, "sacred to
the memory of" - are seen as an integral
BEFORE the war he urged the British people
to welcome Hitler's troops as tourists.
After the war he favoured a preventive war against
Russia. Now he wants Britain to demolish her
defences. Throughout the years Lord Russell
and his supporters have been able to pursue their
eccentric campaigns in freedom. They should
ask themselves this question: How long would
that freedom last if their policies were adopted?
Where the 2bhoys are. In the hallway are
the empties; through the door hearts are
full, hopes are high. There are still a few
amber inches in the bottle. Present are some
hard-core Friends of Brendan. They listen
with many an obliging guffaw to the
brandy owner's solo swish on his anecdotal
roller-coaster, with occasional stops for an old
I.R.A. air or a Connemara tear-jerker.
And as the British Government stepped up the pace
of change, so the Africans stepped up their demands.
TODAY, in London, that rash and thoughtless policy has
caused a crisis - a crisis that never should have happened.
No wonder there is doubt and fearful heart-searching.
If the Government now reverses its plan to give the
Africans control in Northern Rhodesia it may indeed face
difficulties from African politicians greedy for power.
Most tools have to lead an intensive life, and faults
in design or quality soon become apparent. It is far
better to pay the fair price for a tool of good
quality, and not handicap yourself from the start.
To put it in a slightly different way, do not allow
yourself to blame the tools when the job does
Last month West Germany was
reported to be halfway toward
this target. Her position as "America's
principal Nato ally" grows stronger
and stronger. Now this target which
Herr Strauss and his fellows
have their eyes on is control of the
warheads to these weapons. General
Heusinger, the man who caused
a great disturbance last autumn
Shelagh Delaney and Alan Sillitoe attacked
education. It was left to reporter Sevareid
to make the strongest criticisms. He said
that in the race of the modern nations,
Britain was slipping behind....
Day by day the police followed up likely and even unlikely
trails. It was learned that Elizabeth Camp had been lending
money to her relatives, and her brother-in-law was asked for
a detailed account of his movements on the 11th. The dead
woman had been engaged once before - to a barman
The Talmud describes that the Shamir lives in
a sanctuary, and only some rare birds know
the existence of it. These birds are, the Cherubim
and the Seraphim. We are also told that the Shamir
is the stylus used by Moses, and this stylus is described
as a very precious diamond-stone and very adamant.
THE Fourth Gospel was almost certainly
written in Greek. A modern text of the
Gospel represents the work of generations of
scholars who have compared the many manu-
scripts of John and worked out the version
which is most likely to have been the original
wording. It is not possible to establish any one
text with absolute precision.
For many years my union had to present its views
to the two major conferences of the movement and
take a licking. For us, unity meant accepting
unpalatable majority decisions as binding on the
movement and having a go next time. Alongside
many others, we conducted our fight by putting
down # unambiguous alternatives to
official policy and seeking to win majorities
for them.
It is thought this would be the minimum
necessary for the extended training modern
arms require and to enable each man to
serve at least a year overseas. There is
no truth in suggestions that Mr. Watkinson
is at odds with the Service chiefs over
the decision to dispense with National
Service, or over any other aspect of
For short ones a smoothing plane can be used.
The gauge can now be used to nick in the tapers
on the newly planed surfaces, and these treated
as before. It is unnecessary to mark the taper with
the straight-edge as one relies upon the truth
of the plane sole to make the tapered surfaces
"I know. Absurd as it may seem, I didn't want
you to think badly of me." She turned away
from him to fondle Judy, who, sensing something
amiss, was nudging her in the endeavour to
gain her attention. "The truth is that
if I had absolutely insisted on sailing at the
time originally arranged, Sir John would
And, since this is election year in West
Germany, Dr. Adenauer is in a tough
spot. Joyce Egginton cables: President
Kennedy at his Washington Press con-
ference admitted he did not know
whether America was lagging behind
Russia in missile power. He said he
was waiting for his senior military
aides to come up with the answer on
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even today, in the 1960s,
no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux. As
early as 1830, when Anglesey believed himself to be on the
point of death, the new German curative method known as
homoeopathy had been brought to his notice.
As a still further development, we follow
with a good basic kit, which includes
the fuller kit (which in its turn, of course,
includes the bare minimum kit).
With this the vast majority of jobs
can be done, though for advanced
cabinet work the necessity for
certain special tools will become
(1) Matzos is deficient bread, (LECHEM ANJO in Hebrew),
so are we deficient without spiritual knowledge, and to
cure our mental incapacity we should be willing
to learn. Education is always the most important task.
Education gives: Freedom of Speech. (2) Bitter Herbs
symbolises the bitterness that is hurled against us.
We eat it. We accept it, to show we have self-control
and that God dwells within us.
In this cruel process which was
hammering out nations on the anvils of
war, there was a constant stirring of
those in authority to find some simple
way out of the complicated financial
6impasse which always resulted, and in the
story of the experiments and expedients
to which the Exchequer resorted is
the story of the prelude to the
Peasants' Revolt of 1381.
This new party, the British Socialist Party, was
not prepared to accept the role of junior helper
in the Labour movement, or of only providing
propaganda in order to increase the volume of
socialist thought in the city, but sought to create
in the Labour movement a more militant attitude
capable of achieving socialism for the working
With fire and sword France denies Algeria the right to self-
determination and tramples on Tunisians' right to independence.
WEST GERMANY - Russia would like to see a clear #
realization that West Germany would not survive even a few hours
of a third world war. The best way to rule out such a tragic
contingency would be to sign a peace treaty to remove the cancerous
growth of West Berlin's occupation status.
Easterly winds, on the other hand,
mean no herring along the shore, as
recent years have shown. A succession
of winds is needed for this effect of
course - one breeze will not do it,
though a very hard westerly will
often start off the "local" herring;
but quite apart from this wind effect
there is an easterly drift special
to this rump of coastline, caused by
the meeting of water from north and south.
God grant, however, that I may be a false prophet &; that
all may go well. Sir R. Peel was here, I understand, but
an express took him off yesterday.'
While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in
the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an
effective alleviation of his painful malady. None of the
numerous conventional remedies to which he had been
subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown them-
selves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect.
It was Mr. Butler who authorised action which
ended yesterday in 32 members of the
Committee of 100 being imprisoned for inciting
a breach of the peace. The committee's
president 89-year-old Earl Russell and
his 61-year-old wife were each jailed for
a week. Playwrights Arnold Wesker (The Kitchen)
and Robert Bolt (The Flowering Cherry) were
Clean up with the plane ready for the bottom,
which is cut in one piece. It should overlap just a
trifle; this can be cleaned up later. As you are
screwing and gluing this piece to the chines it is
necessary to be careful not to miss the chine with
the screws. I prefer spacing screws 3 in. apart for
the bottom, both for screwing to the chines and
the bottom shaped transom facing.
We gathered together a splendid Sunday
afternoon service at the church, each child
being given a number which, as they came into
church, they could just whisper to
the superintendent who filled in the regi-
ster at her own home. Each child had a
picture given them and the lesson was
largely based on this. It was on a
stamp which could be stuck in
their book, and there was quite a
clamour for back stamps if a child
had to miss the Sunday Church from any cause
Stepmother Ann Todd and doctor Christopher Lee are
also effectively around. They provide some chilly red
herrings in this "Find-the-body" thriller. VERDICT:
Don't believe all you see and hear!
NOT for the first time the homely mug of Sidney
James has pumped life into a slim, strained
comedy. He does his rescue act in "Double Bunk"
(Leicester-square Theatre, "A").
It has a great look of speed and technical fun
about it, of enormous cinematic enjoyment, and
above all of cinematic sense. Much of it has
that air of improvisation, as of off-the-cuff
living, that once seemed so new and so
attractive. The story (not that the story, in the
sense of plot, matters much; but in the sense of
situation and movement it matters a lot) is
that of a man on the run (Jean-Paul Belmondo),
who spends a few days with an American girl
Their offering last night differed little
from their earlier act on this show a week
or so ago. But the Mudlarks, with Jeff Mudd
out of the Army and back with sister Mary
and brother Fred, were in bright, zestful
form. Why only two numbers, though? It
was not enough. "A FAIR COP," the B B C
Whitehall farce last night, looked like
a rabbit warren in a field of corn.
And we will nail the Divine Law on the
door posts of the house and upon the gates.
"That your days may be multiplied and the
days of your children in the land, which
the Lord swear unto your father to give them,
as days of HEAVEN ON EARTH" That
means the Kingdom of Messianic Righteousness
A pleasant life truly!... It so happens that I have an
Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that
ever was. But he has not one word of English.'
While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the
Whigs, and the temporary assumption of the government
There was a computed 8.4 per cent. swing
towards the Nationalist party of Dr. Verwoerd,
the Prime Minister. This implies the dis-
appearance of the Progressive party from
the House. Early results in yesterday's
general election showed Nationalists being
returned in their strongholds, like Bloem-
fontein and the Transvaal, with slightly
increased majorities. In the Cape, the
veteran United Party politician, Mr. Harry
Lawrence, standing as a Progressive, was
There were loud cries of "shame" from
all parts of the Conservative side. Mr.
Fell appeared to be in tears as he sat
down. A few minutes later, Mr. Fell got up
and left the chamber. He returned five
minutes later to stand just inside the
doorway looking more composed. In the
middle of the amazing scene, Mr. Macmillan
waved his hand at Mr. Fell.
This plot to rob a French millionaire of 300,000
worth of jewellery struck me as ingenious. The play
had style, moved at a quick pace and everyone did
well. But it was Mr. Houston's evening.
Earlier, on the Palladium show I found Stanley
Holloway's act too long and not particularly
entertaining. It was also a mistake to
re-book Gene Detroy and his performing chimpanzees
so soon after their previous appearance.
Though in the minds of most people there was
no doubt that the woman had been the victim
of foul play, the verdict brought in was that there
was not sufficient evidence to show whether
she had fallen or been thrown from a train.
The Merstham Tunnel, on the London-to-
Brighton line, is approximately one mile long,
and some time before midnight on September
24, 1905, a Sunday, Sub-Inspector Peacock, of
the London, Brighton and South Coast Railway,
Each time you rehearse you will probably put
things in a different way. All the better! - it will
sound much more spontaneous on the occasion
itself. Remember your four names - have the list
with you if you like - and you simply can't
be flummoxed! Of course, in any speech a good
start and a good finish are half the battle.
"For the stone shall cry out of the wall", like
Baalam's ass, "and the purlin of timber shall
creak in answer" "if the roof of our security is
crushing our soul" (see Hab. 2, 10-11). And it is
through the Shamir: "That the earth shall be
filled with the knowledge of the Glory of the
Lord, as the waters cover the sea." (Hab. 2, 14.)
"That cannot continue without either
development being limited or an
adjustment being made in financing."
The Government decided to adjust
the financing - which Mr. Powell
claimed was underpinning - not
undermining - the service. Answering the
attack on "economic charges" for welfare
foods, Mr. Powell said that all these
foods would still be free in families
receiving regular National Assistance
It was the end of a rather curious
speech in which Mr. Macmillan wound up
the two-day debate on foreign affairs.
He began in a low, almost chatty mono-
tone, and his voice never rose to any
accent of urgency. He passed in rapid
review the United Nations Secretariat;
nuclear tests; the canard about British
interference with the United Nations
in the Congo; Kuwait; and South-East
Mr. Macleod went on with the conference
at Lancaster House despite the crisis
which had blown up. He has now revealed
his full plans to the Africans and Liberals
attending. These plans do not give the
Africans the overall majority they are
seeking. African delegates are studying
them today. The conference will meet
to discuss the function of a proposed
Sir Roy's United Federal Party is
boycotting the London talks on the
Protectorate's future. Said Mr. Nkumbula
last night: "We want to discuss what to
do if the British demonstrations."
Yesterday Sir Roy's chief aide, Mr.
Julius Greenfield, telephoned his chief
a report on his talks with Mr. Macmillan
Nor is she necessarily being deceitful. She really did feel tired
until the mind got the necessary injection of a fresh - and an
attractive - interest! Tiredness has, therefore, as much to do
with our mental state as with our physical exhaustion. A
disturbed mind can bring the healthiest body to a sense
of fatigue. They wonder why they get no rest at night,
THE Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh come home
tonight from their tour in the East. The duke's
trigger-finger and the ritual slaughter of beasts
have taken the headlines in this country.
Nevertheless, the tour has been an immense
success. The Queen has won a triumph. It
would be pleasanter if such cruel and feudal
performances as tiger and rhino hunts were
dropped from future Royal programmes.
Inevitably there comes the time when Mr. Hudson suddenly breaks
with tradition and arrives there in July, when, just as
inevitably, the place is full of American teenagers on an
escorted tour. Result: Mr. Hudson and lady love Lollo find
themselves playing chaperon (Brenda de Banzie, the official
one, has broken a leg) to the girls, who have just
been joined by a Jeep-load of boys.
Only Mr. Lucas's actions, therefore, arose
explicably from appreciable motives. The
rest, one feels, were driven to effective action
by the author in spite of the ineffectuality
with which he had endowed them. One hopes
that he is not asking us to believe that,
because of their odd accents, they act oddly
like the queer foreigners of tradition.
In fact, the Tories made it worse now for the sick and
needy than Labour had to make it in 1950. And
as a percentage of social service expenditure,
health had fallen from 28.5 to 23.1 per cent.
Then Mr. Brown swung his attack directly to the
unsmiling Mr. Powell. He demanded that instead
of taking it out of the patients Mr. Powell should
take ruthless action against the drug making
industry, whose profits had risen by up to 400
per cent. in the last eight years.
PRESIDENT KENNEDY renewed his pressure
on Mr. Harold Macmillan to join the
Common Market during their talks at Admiralty
House, Whitehall, yesterday. Much of their
three hours, 20 minutes of discussion is believed
to have been devoted to this main point
Referring to previous negotiations, Mr. Macmillan looked towards
Mr. Reginald Maudling. "These were negotiations in which the
President of the Board of Trade played a conspicuous part," the
Premier said. He dismissed the idea that Britain would be
swamped by cheap labour. Our industry, he said, would
probably gain. "Many people feel we have had, perhaps, too
"Mr. Powell finds it easier to take it out
of mothers, children and sick people than
to take on this vast industry," Mr.
Brown commented icily. "Let us have a
full inquiry into the cost of drugs and
the pharmaceutical industry." The health
of children today owed much to the welfare
food scheme. It was maintained during
the war. Now in conditions of Tory
affluence it seemed it could not be
The process has been too slow for Herr
Strauss and last month he attacked
Britain for being an obstacle for West Germany's
plans for a "unified supply apparatus"
in Nato. (A supply apparatus which would
link together the various West German
"facilities.") By the end of the year there
will be 11 German divisions in Nato
compared with four divisions of
So all ends as you know it will, with the
middle-aged romancers respectably wed and
Master Darin going steady with the delectable
Sandra Dee (to whom, I believe, he is married
in real life). Miss Dee, incidentally, who keeps
turning up as the typical teenager in all the
"good girl" parts (Tuesday Weld gets the "bad girl"
ones), is becoming quite an accomplished actress.
Your Auntie Edie's coming in for a cup of tea later and
you know how she has a good look round everywhere.' There was
a tinkle and a thud from beside the coat cupboard. Cecil's
mother turned around in time to see the briefcase collapse
against the brass umbrella stand. 'Well now!' She hurried
towards it and picked it up.
In no other conquered country, not even
Poland, had the Germans begun with such a
drastic step. There is no doubt that the compatriots
of Eichmann would have been as good as their
evil word. THE Inland Revenue people have a
thankless task. But they do not make
themselves less disliked by their attitude
to their customers - who incidentally
pay their salaries.
Their homes - for since those years they have
lived on in Purley - have always been
havens of rest, and the welcome has never
failed. Their three boys, now successful men,
were in our Children's Church from the
outset, and when we don't see one
another we do not forget.
But lace-making is by no means a lost
art. It suffered a decline and fell into
lamentably low standards in the fussy
over-furnishing of the Victorian age
but it would take more than a temporary
lapse in good taste to destroy this lovely,
viable craft. It has, in fact, readily
adapted itself to modern tastes and the ill-
ustrations in the following pages will show
how completely it is in sympathy with con-
MR. IAIN MACLEOD, the Colonial Secretary, denied
in the Commons last night that there have been
secret negotiations on Northern Rhodesia's future.
The Northern Rhodesia conference in London has
been boycotted by the two main settlers' parties -
the United Federal Party and the Dominion Party.
But representatives of Sir Roy Welensky, Prime
Minister of the Central African Federation, went
to Chequers at the week-end for talks with
To Mr. Macmillan, Mr Gaitskell said the
Prime Minister should begin to take
seriously the danger of the spread of nuclear
weapons within the Nato alliance. "Let us say
to Macmillan that he should press, I hope
with the agreement of Kennedy, in
talks with the Soviet Union, for the establishment
in central Europe of a zone of controlled
The biological control of pests in the garden
is not new to the American gardener. Lady-
birds figure in press advertisements, their
sale being by the gallon. Praying mantis (Mantis
religiosa), both native and "immigrant" varieties,
are used by gardeners in all parts of the United
States. Advertisements offer eggs of European,
Chinese or native forms of mantis.
Each size of hook is made for use with a certain
size of thread. To ensure the correct results,
it is important that you use the size of hook
specified in the directions. These are the
correct numbers to use with Mercer-Crochet:
Directions are given for a small practice
piece for each stitch that you learn. When
you have become proficient in these
stitches, attractive articles can be made
from the directions included in this book.
THE Palace cinema at Buckley, near Chester, will be
reopened next week by Barry Flanagan and Eric
Platt, both aged 19. Eric says: "We believe in the
cinema. And we know what people want." The
combination of enthusiasm and shrewd anticipation
of public taste has launched many great
enterprises. Barry and Eric have enthusiasm. They
are backed by a resurgent film industry.
She will, in fact, be surprised at what peace
of mind ensues. (b) Concentrate on one
thing at a time. A list or a plan enables us to
put all our energies into the particular
If we ever stopped to consider how much energy - and time -
we lose this way in the course of a day we would be
staggered. Some of it is inevitable, and we do not want to
become too pernickety. Nevertheless, we could all probably
be a little more orderly for we so frequently just muddle
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even today, in the
1960s, no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux. As
early as 1830, when Anglesey believed himself to be on
the point of death, the new German curative method known
as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice.
When the sailing season was past, he sent Pearl back to
England, and returned to Rome for the winter. In late
November, he was 'suffering as usual', but hoped, he
told Arthur, 'to find this place agree with me better
than Naples. The journey has been against me, as
there has been much rain and damp, but the
temperature is high & I have not yet thought of
When Nero supped in # his Golden House,
a mingled shower of flowers and odorous
essences fell upon him; and one of the
recreations of Heliogabalus was to
smother his courtiers with flowers. Nor was
it entirely as an object of luxury that the
ancients made use of flowers; they were
considered to possess sanative and
We believe that a comprehensive medical service, free to the patient
at the point of need and with one standard for all sick
people, is good and attainable. "We remain for it. But the Tories
never were." Interrupted by angry Tories, Mr. Brown retorted:
"The jackals bay when there is nothing better they can do."
The French have an inborn appreciation
of good food and the gusto which they
derive from gastronomy is intellectual
and aesthetic as well as physical.
There is the same finesse about their
feeding, the same subtle delicacy of
touch, the same unfailing sense of
proportion as exists among her
writers, music composers and other
exponents of things that are
The Czechoslovak kitchen, again, is
so languorous, so passionate, and
possibly comparable alone to a gypsy
melody. The paprika and caraway perfume
the meats with their antithesis. The
opulent varieties of Czechoslovak past-
ries recall in fact the rich heritage
of rich embroideries and costumes
specifically national. The art and
science of cookery, however, is
essentially French, and, irrespective of
But there is heart in the telling, and an intense
realism in the situation. A young girl lives in
a single dingy room with her slatternly,
promiscuous mother. In such surroundings she
learns sex is something sordid, and when she
experiences it for the first time herself it
is incoherently, clumsily, but half shyly and
half inquisitively. As is the case in Fanny her
first lover is a sailor who leaves her to bear
The views of the Archbishop, who has
maintained an unflinching witness to what
Christianity really means, must carry weight. But
what, in fact, can the other Commonwealth countries
do to bring support and comfort to this gallant
minority? THERE is no evidence that the
policy of appeasement has modified the
actions of the Nationalists. On the contrary,
apartheid is being applied ever more
Mr. Anthony Fell (Yarmouth) called the decision "shocking"
and added: "It is the most disastrous thing any Prime
Minister has done for many, many generations." He
concluded: "The best service the Prime Minister can do
would be to resign." The outburst shocked MPs of
all parties. Even close friends were signalling Mr. Fell
Seven Commonwealth countries have told Mr. Sandys,
Commonwealth Relations Secretary, that they wish to be kept
in touch in London. Three of them - Canada, Australia,
New Zealand - will have strong delegations at an opening
meeting in London on Monday. Once the Common
Market's Council of Ministers draws up the procedure
for negotiations in a fortnight's time, these Commonwealth
countries can arrange for observers to advise the British
Elizabeth had left Hammersmith in the late afternoon,
and arrived at Hounslow around 5 P.M., where
she had tea with her other sister, and then
went to catch the 7.42. Her sister saw her
to the station, helping her with some of
her packages. This sister was able to establish
that she had carried a green purse and
had bought a railway ticket.
"Thinking over the results of the Vienna
meeting, peace-loving people will say 'a
good beginning.'" Mr. Krushchov remained at the
airport to join President Brezhnev in welcoming
Dr. Sukarno, President and Prime Minister of
Indonesia, who arrived by Boeing 707 jet on a
state visit 40 minutes after Mr. Khrushchov had
arrived from Vienna. A cheering, delighted crowd
of Indonesian students broke through crash barriers
to surround their President on the tarmac for
Forever associated with Charles is Archbishop Laud,
now so much nobler a figure than former historians
led us to believe. Laud was enthusiastically hated
by Calvinists and Puritans, and the sentiment was
mutual. But Laud was no Romanizer. One of his
first public acts was a hard-hitting battle with
the Jesuit, Fisher. But anyone who was friendly
with James and Charles, the Puritans argued,
was necessarily a menace.
They only worked, of course, a five-
day week so that in the first week
Monday to Friday were days one
to five of the timetable, the following
Monday was day six and Tuesday
started day one again and so on.
By this means they avoided each
week being the same with a pupil
knowing exactly what the subject
would be on Friday afternoon at
This was strange, even magic, because the owner's
name was Pierre Tortorolo which, in Nicoison Italian means
'turtledove'. Pierre Turtledove. When we woke up properly it
was raining, an even more hopeless rain than London, and we
looked out of the windows at the weeping trees and the
curling white breath of the mountains. The land looked
like a beaten woman and the turtle-doves cried her
Freedom from want cannot be fulfilled nor
freedom from fear, fear of starvation in the
midst of plenty. Help will not be easily forth-
coming for the people in need. They will
think of the animals first (which is of course
our duty). Of course the individual will
eat and be full but: "Take heed to yourself,
that your heart be not deceived, and 1ye turn
aside, and serve other gods, and worship them",
the yourself is thy greatest enemy, the self-
As they became known the Choir went to working-
men's clubs, to Conisborough on cheap trips to
sing to the miners, and sang for other organisations such
as the Bakers' Union, for whom they went on Satur-
day evenings to the Corner Pin Hotel, to rally
the members. The B.S.P. also rented pleasant rooms
on West Street, where a successful Sunday
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law,
the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby, had written to
advise Anglesey to give the system a trial, adding
that it was being cultivated with extraordinary
success in France and Italy, and that he
himself was being treated under a doctor who
had studied under its founder, the aged
At the beginning of this wonderful century many
people believed that there were no more worlds to
Their friendship for Augusta became rather
hollow, and the news that Byron had left
her practically all his money caused it to
crumble to oblivion. Though Lady Byron
knew perfectly well that Byron, as early
as the year of their wedding, 1815, had
made a will in Augusta's favour, she had
evidently not passed on that information;
and it came as an appalling surprise to
Captain Byron that he had been left
without the fortune that would keep up the
Vence is a sober spot, half way between small
town and village, pigeon grey, sly with arches, and
linked by a whispering plot of fountains. In the main
tree-heavy square you can sit in the autumn
sunshine, still burning like a half-cooled iron,
sip pastis and read the local newspapers.
A pleasant life truly!... It so happens
that I have an Italian who is perhaps
the best Valet de Chambre that
ever was. But he has not one word
of English.' While he was writing
this letter he heard of the fall of
the Whigs, and the temporary
assumption of the government by
the Duke of Wellington.
There are three kinds of reasons that justify
the protests and these should carry weight with
the U.S. Government, Earl Russell suggested. "The
first of these reasons is the importance of pre-
serving the hitherto cordial relations between the
U.S. and Great Britain, not only in Government
circles, but in public opinion." Earl Russell
says it is inevitable, though profoundly
regrettable, that the agitation against
the Polaris base has generated some antagonism
to the policy of the United States.
SOME 17 years ago, in the early summer of 1934,
the German ambassador in London was dictating
a secret report to his chief von Papen, in Berlin.
"Britain is uncomfortable in her role of champion
of German rearmament, in opposition, to France."
Later that year he warned that Britain knew
Germany was breaking the agreement to stop
building bombers, and added:
If we joined the Common Market, our
food subsidies would probably be
replaced by a system of tariffs "That
will mean a rise in the cost of living."
BUDGETTE or no Budgette YOU are
spending more as the summer holiday
season moves into top gear.
On the eve of August Bank Holiday
the spending spree is at a new
The scheme will be subject to Cabinet
approval. Mr. Watkinson remains con-
vinced that the policy initiated in
1957, in Mr. Sandys's time as Minister
of Defence, is still correct. This was to
return to the tradition of all-Regular
voluntary forces, with the last National
Serviceman out of uniform by the end
Belmondo reappears at the Paris Pullman
in Moderato Cantabile (curiously trans-
lated into Seven Days... Seven Nights ...
A certificate), Peter Brook's film made
in France and shown last autumn at
the London Film Festival. In spite of
magnificent performances from him and
from Jeanne Moreau, this has been fairly
well trounced by the critics wherever it
has appeared. Leisurely, even slow,
By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples.
He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as
his health permitted him to enjoy anything. 'The
Pearl', he wrote, 'is arrived, which is a great
resource. Vesuvius seems to be tired; he is
going out fast.... What a gay, lively people, and
what a busy town. At Rome, every other man
was a priest: here the priest is 1superceded by
the soldier - a favourable change in my eye,
particularly as the troops are very fine.'
Since 1958, 13 Labour life Peers and
Peeresses have been created. Most Labour
sentiment would # still favour the abolition
of the House of Lords, but while it remains
Labour has to have an adequate number of
members. THE two rival African Nationalist
Parties of Northern Rhodesia have agreed to
get together to face the challenge from Sir
Roy Welensky, the Federal Premier.
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law, the
diplomatist Lord Ponsonby, had written to advise Anglesey to give the
system a trial, adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary
success in France and Italy, and that he himself was being treated
under a doctor who had studied under its founder, the aged Dr.
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir Francis
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as
'more like a God upon earth than a human being', had an
increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical
men in the cities of Europe. One of these was the Neapolitan,
Dr Giuseppe Mauro, whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834.
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at
Ko"then, near Leipzig, asking for advice. In doing so he
described his distinguished patient and his symptoms. He
told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong, energetic
man with a gentle and charming character, even-tempered
and sedate, not easily irritated, patient and persevering,
'but he appears to despair of ever being cured.'
It's hereabouts that the budge takes to the bottle, but I
don't think it was through boredom. The film is funny enough
in places and has a line or two of painful home truths
thrown in. "I don't want to talk like an adult," screams
Gina, walking out on the man who has so far
failed to make an honest woman of her.
"That cannot continue without either development
being limited or an adjustment being made
in financing." The Government decided to adjust
the financing - which Mr. Powell claimed was
underpinning - not undermining - the service.
Answering the attack on "economic charges"
for welfare, Mr. Powell said that all these
foods would still be free in families receiving
regular National Assistance grants.
There is a whole group of theories which attempt to explain the problems of the
Fourth Gospel by explanations based on assumed textual dislocations. The
present state of the Gospel is the result of an accident-prone history. The
original was written on a roll, or codex, which fell into disorder or was
accidentally damaged. An editor, who was not the author, made what he
could of the chaos by placing the fragments, or sheets, or pages, in order.
Before he could open his mouth, the collector
stretched out a hand. 'Watch your step there, sir! Your briefcase
is hanging open. You'll have someone shoving their hot
little hands inside. Here, I'll do it.' The collector pressed the twinkling
catch home with a click. Cecil, irretrievably laden with
both briefcase and conscience, stumbled away
But he said discussions "on a higher
level than in the past" might be useful.
The President will probably discuss the
problem with Dr. Brentano, the West German
Foreign Minister, who is due in Washington
next week. A big slice of Germany's "aid"
is the early payment of a 210million
debt to America. United States officials
quickly point out that this is money due
'Are you enjoying yourself, Olimpia?' she
asked idly, tapping the girl's cheek lightly with
her fan, in passing; but she did not wait for
the answer. Disturbed by vague uneasiness, she
was wondering whether Olimpia had been
watching her talk with Orsini. Surely she
could not have overheard anything they
said? A moment's reflection reassured her
on that point, for she was certain no one
had been standing near them.
And we answer, that the Lord our God gave us "four freedoms"
without which Society cannot make progress. And we drink
"four cups" to thank the Lord our God for the "four
freedoms" which are Divine. There are four ways of
redemption: (1) I will bring you out from under the
burdens of Egypt. (2) I will rid you of their bondage.
By the end of the month he still delighted in
Naples. He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as
much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything.
'The Pearl', he wrote, 'is arrived, which is a great
resource. Vesuvius seems to be tired; he is going
out fast.... What a gay, lively people, and what a
busy town. At Rome, every other man was a
priest: here the priest is 1superceded by the
soldier - a favourable change in my eye,
particularly as the troops are very fine.'
To complete the job, screw two fittings to the
inside of the chair arms about 2 1/2 in. from the
back to hold the baby's safety harness. These can be
made by shaping and soldering two pieces of stout
wire as shown in Fig. 6. Make sure that these
are well secured as they will have to withstand
considerable pulling as the child becomes older.
But there is heart in the telling, and an
intense realism in the situation. A young
girl lives in a single dingy room with her
slatternly, promiscuous mother. In such
surroundings she learns sex is something sordid,
and when she experiences it for the first time
herself it is incoherently, clumsily, but half
shyly and half inquisitively. As is the case in
Fanny her first lover is a sailor who leaves
her to bear his child and sails away.
Since 1958, 13 Labour life Peers and
Peeresses have been created. Most Labour
sentiment would still favour the abolition
of the House of Lords, but while it remains
Labour has to have an adequate number
of members. THE two rival African
Nationalist Parties of Northern Rhodesia
have agreed to get together to face
the challenge from Sir Roy Welensky,
the Federal Premier.
London was again in turmoil; but this time
over a question of trade rivalry. A rich mer-
chant from Genoa had been murdered, and
John de Kyrkby, a Londoner, was one of
those charged with the crime. It is clear
from the chronicles that this was a sordid
quarrel between monopolists and interlopers.
The city merchants were jealous of foreign
merchants who could tempt court and
baronage with rarer luxuries than those
There have been many conflicting tendencies in
psychology in its search for ultimate units and here
we can only indicate what seems to be the most promising
concept which is current today. It is known as the schema.
It is not an easy concept and if I try to make it
concrete it will be at the cost of over-simplification
but even so it may be better than a meaningless abstraction.
By the end of the month he still delighted in
Naples. He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed
it as much as his health permitted him to
enjoy anything. 'The Pearl', he wrote, 'is arrived,
which is a great resource. Vesuvius seems
to be tired; he is going out fast.... What
a gay, lively people, and what a busy town.
At Rome, every other man was a priest:
here the priest is 1superceded by the
soldier - a favourable change in my eye,
particularly as the troops are very fine.'
It is not easy to make an economic
comparison between clay pots and the various
substitutes; the former may last indefinitely
with luck, while the latter are often
expendable used only once. Clay pots are
efficient and congenial containers in which
to grow plants. In their proper setting they
are not unattractive and, in spite of
their shortcomings, most gardeners have
a nostalgic affection for them.
It's a very free place to write in, and there's
the advantage that no one knows what
you're writing about anyway. "Not that I did
much when I was over this past two times,
not with that great little Irish bar on
Seventh Avenue, The Pigsty, always open.
I was there, in even faster orbit, when that
third astronaut went up - what's his name?
The storage problem puts clay pots at a
definite disadvantage. They are fairly heavy
and difficult things to accommodate and
they must have some protection from severe
weather, which can be quite a headache in
a small garden. While admitting that
broken pots have on occasions provided
artists with delightful studies, there is no
doubt that a pile of badly stacked,
half-broken pots is an unlovely sight
During the sixteenth century a considerable
amount of crochet was produced in the
convents of Europe. Without doubt it was the
nuns who carried the craft to Ireland. There it
was developed into quite an elaborate and distinctive
form with rosettes, leaves and lace fillings. During
the time of Victoria this gentle craft was
I have also included a sketch of paddles I make for
rowing this dinghy (Fig. 3). They are very simple, cheap
and easy to make. As will be seen from the plan
there is only a single gunwale on the outside.
I find that the type of rowlock we use in Canada
is difficult to obtain here and expensive. I overcome
this in another way as shown in Fig. 4.
"Such retaliation might, and probably would,
destroy the whole population of Britain in
the course of, at the most, an hour" without
provoking American retaliation. Earl Russell
believes: "It is very questionable whether
British membership of Nato and British
permission of American bases on our territory
add anything to the strength of America,
while, on the contrary, they impose upon
America an onerous obligation which it
may prove impossible to fulfil."
According to Pliny, and others, certain
herbs and flowers proved of sovereign
power in preventing the approaches of
ebriety, or, as Bassius less clearly
expresses it, in clarifying the functions
of the brain. It is said that there is
nothing new under the sun, but regarding
foodstuffs the traveller occasionally
encounters a certain measure of novelty.
He had long sensed injustice in the distinctions
drawn between ordinary wage-earners and those
self-employed. By the time his monthly salary
arrived, the Inland Revenue had already taken
their share, and there were precious few
reductions in tax save for wives, children,
life-insurances or any of the other normal
encumbrances which Cecil had so far avoided.
Trebling the rate was arrived at by a simple
arithmetic which argued that, as the first
poll-tax had supplied 22,000, a tax of
three times the rate would produce 66,000.
The only concession made in view of the
objections to the first two poll-taxes was
the suggestion that the rich should help
the poor - but this was only a pious hope
because no machinery was provided for
carrying it into effect, and a subordinate
Use 5/8 by No. 4 gauge screws (brass) or nail
with inch and a quarter galvanized nails, if
you are doing it that way. Use flat head screws
about 4 in. apart and do not counter-sink in
the 1/4 in. ply. Make a very small hole for
the screw to allow for a good grip. Remember
Apart from their formal Admiralty House talks, followed by lunch
given by Lady Dorothy Macmillan with Mrs. Kennedy and other
guests present, Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Macmillan met three more
times yesterday. In PARIS, Mr. Dean Rusk, U.S. Secretary of
State, gave a 90-minute briefing on the Vienna talks to the
15-nation Nato council. Some of his listeners said he was
"rather pessimistic" and talked of a Berlin crisis later this year.
GOOD for Sir Roy Welensky! The tough,
resolute Premier of the Rhodesian Federation
shakes the life out of his critics. He calls them
"jelly-boned." He promises to preserve federation
against African fanatics and woolly minded
individuals in the West. Some may ask: Is
Welensky justified in being so harsh to those who
disagree with him? The facts answer that.
'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble!
What infatuation! Personally I am indifferent, but
I really tremble for my country! I may be
mistaken, 1tho' I cannot but fear that the
exasperation of the People will be so great at the
return of Ultratoryism, that the Commons House
upon a dissolution, which must be had, will be
a mass of Radicalism, &; then God knows
'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble! What
infatuation! Personally I am indifferent, but I really
tremble for my country! I may be mistaken, 1tho' I cannot
but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great
at the return of Ultratoryism, that the Commons House
upon a dissolution, which must be had, will be a mass
of Radicalism, &; then God knows what may happen....
We dip into both, at the Seder. And we want to understand
more of the Torah and the Oral Tradition, our inheritance.
Living the life of the Torah ("dipping-in") makes us
meek: "But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall
delight themselves in the abundance of Peace" (Psalm 37,
11). That gives us freedom from want.
I'm afraid we can't take yours into account
at all. It's a rule of I.I.I. You see, you
might stop work to have - well, for all sorts of
reasons, or you might leave him." "But how
utterly extraordinary," said Serena angrily,
"you must be living in the nineteenth century."
"Oh, but it's a very general rule, Mrs. Buttery,
you'll find that no insurance companies,
or building societies, for that matter, will
allow for the wife's earnings.
As Mr. Macmillan made his announcement, the
House was crowded. He said: "No # British
Government could join the European Economic
Community without prior negotiation with a view
to meeting the needs of the Commonwealth countries,
of our European Free Trade Association partners
and of British agriculture." Near the end of a
long statement, Mr. Macmillan stated the
In the home, crochet lace can be used to make
tablecloths, traycloths and runners, and edgings
from heavy to fine can fulfil a variety of
functions. The art of crochet is not difficult and
it is reasonably quick to work. In the following
pages simple diagrams and instructions are given
to enable the beginner to master all the essential
For all foods the range was from 3.6 per cent above the national average
in younger two-adult households to 4.8 per cent below in families with
four or more children, compared with +3.6 to -5.4 per cent in 1958
and +2.8 to -2.6 per cent in 1957. As with the price of energy index,
the only noteworthy change was for households with three children,
in which the index fell by 1.8 to 97.5 per cent of the average for
Conservatives protested when
Mr. Gaitskell said he had been
told this "by some # people
of considerable authority," he
retorted. "I agree with the Prime
Minister that I do not think
we are necessarily bound for
federalism in Europe," he went
When the sailing season was past, he sent Pearl back to
England, and returned to Rome for the winter. In late November, he
was 'suffering as usual', but hoped, he told Arthur, 'to find this
place agree with me better than Naples. The journey has been against
me, as there has been much rain and damp, but the temperature
is high & I have not yet thought of a fire....
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has
taken a town in the industrial North of England
and has made it live. The shabby streets and
wet pavements, the school play-grounds, the
public monuments and the rubbish strewn canals -
even the worn head-stones in the churchyard,
"sacred to the memory of" - are seen as an
integral part of the story.
AN experiment in courtesy is launched by the Electricity
Board. The board is laying a cable along a seven-
mile route in Surrey. A warden, Mr. Jack Finlay,
has been appointed to smooth out difficulties for
householders when trenches are dug outside their
front gates. Splendid. By showing concern
for the people the board will earn their good will.
Happy patrolling, Mr. Finlay!
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir Francis
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as
'more like a God upon earth than a human being',
had an increasing number of disciples among
unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe.
One of these was the Neapolitan, Dr Giuseppe Mauro,
whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834.
The skeleton of the boat will now take shape,
and this is the time to check before making fast
to see that nothing is distorted. Ensure that
the outside measurements from transom to transom
are equal on each side and that the transoms
are parallel horizontally. Next bevel the chines
with a plane so that the bottom will fit snugly.
I'm the only man on earth who doesn't know
what his name is. Don't tell me. I want to
preserve that distinction. "I already know about
Shepard and that Salvation Army chap Gagarin -
the two biggest bores since Cardinal Newman.
That's enough of all that hooey." HE plunges
on into reminiscences of his trips. There is
The effect of bottom congestion due to
the light pressure is inevitably mixed
with that of the suitability of ground
for spawning. Both result in crowding,
so there is no need to try to separate
them - thank Heaven! A good picture of
this is seen on the 150 miles of spawning
grounds from the Viking in the north down
to the Klondykes and the Reef along
the western edge of the Norwegian
In China, for instance, dried rats are esteemed
a delicacy. The visitor is told that
they restore the hair of the bald and that
a stewed black rat will ward off a fever.
A number of newly-born white mice served
alive, dipped in treacle and swallowed
like a prairie oyster is considered a
piece of resistance.
It is difficult for many to see Mr. Pearson
in the role of a popular orator at the
hustings, the spellbinder that Mr. Diefen-
baker was in the last two campaigns. The
impression remains that the Liberal leader
is still the diplomatist, more at home
in the chancery, or the corridors of the United
Nations, not the father figure, so necessary
in Canadian leadership, or the practical
politician, able to talk about sewage problems
And, since this is election year in West
Germany, Dr. Adenauer is in a tough spot.
Joyce Egginton cables: President Kennedy
at his Washington Press conference admitted
he did not know whether America was
lagging behind Russia in missile power.
He said he was waiting for his senior
military aides to come up with the answer
'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble! What
infatuation! Personally I am indifferent, but I really
tremble for my country! I may be mistaken,
1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation
of the People will be so great at the return of
Ultratoryism, that the Commons House upon a
dissolution, which must be had, will be a mass
of Radicalism, & then God knows what may
And the sequence in the text is different than
in the first part of the Shmah, we have first "and
to bind them for a sign upon your hand, that
they may be as frontlets between your eyes." First to
bind them to have the vision and then "And 1ye
shall teach them to your children." And as we have go-
ne through the mill, we need not teach them
to the children any more diligently and the
children will grasp now what will befall
them without visionary power.
In Gethsemane He prayed that the cup
should pass from Him. Jesus shows us
the way to face life. To see all the latent
frightening possibilities and yet by facing
them and knowing God is with us and
that, with Him, there is nothing that can
finally defeat us. More than that, that God
has something important to do with our
lives and that the nearer we get to Him,
the stronger we become.
For without the vision to serve the Lord your God with all
your heart and with all your soul and with all your might
the problem of life cannot be solved. "Therefore shall 1ye lay
up these my words in your heart and in your soul." The text
adds and in your soul, searching your soul.
The chines are morticed into this and butt up
against the transom. Start at the bow and
spring them both at the same time over the
slots cut in the moulds and into the notches
cut for this purpose in the stern or after
transom framing. Glue, screw and make fast.
Let us consider first what would
appear to be the simplest case -
that of flat fish on the bottom.
The evidence suggest that the fish are
aware of the moving footrope before
it reaches them. They move away before
it, swimming at the same speed
for an unknown period of time, until
they become (1) tired, or (2) more used
to the disturbance.
The bar was the commonest marking, but others
were also used. Dots sometimes served in place of the
bar, and there are cases where spacing is used as
it is now used to mark a paragraph ending. Frequently
paragraphos markings were omitted. C. H. Roberts is of
the opinion that in the original of the Fourth Gospel
some markings would be used, although which, it is
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master
at Ko"then, near Leipzig, asking for advice. In doing
so he described his distinguished patient and his
symptoms. He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey
a strong, energetic man with a gentle and charming
character, even-tempered and sedate, not easily
irritated, patient and persevering, 'but he appears
to despair of ever being cured.'
By delicate application of odours and richly-
distilled perfumes, these refined voluptuaries
aroused the fainting appetite and added a
more exquisite and ethereal enjoyment to
the grosser pleasures of the board. The grati-
fication of the sense of smelling was a
subject of no little importance to the Romans.
They considered flowers as forming a very
essential article in their festal preparations;
and it is the opinion of Bassius that
at their desserts the number of flowers
far exceeded the number of fruits.
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even
today, in the 1960s, no cure has been
found for the 6tic douloureux. As early
as 1830, when Anglesey believed himself
to be on the point of death, the new
German curative method known as
homoeopathy had been brought to
No, he hadn't read it; Madame did all the
reading. Lawrence died in this very place.
He used to come to Pierre's Bar again and
again. No, he couldn't really remember
him, he was one of the crowd. The
sun came out; Mart went shopping; I
sat in the square reading the Patriote.
One called La Patriote is Communist, and at the time
of our arrival it was throwing huge over-ripe verbal
tomatoes at General de Gaulle. One side of this square
is a smart but modest bar called Pierre's Bar. For one
day, with the help of the Syndicat d'Initiative, we had been
hunting for furnished rooms, and had given up, when an
elderly lady, the owner of a residence called the Poet's Nest,
had firmly closed the door in our noses.
The Archbishop has long been a courageous
fighter against apartheid. He must be heard
with attention. On purely practical grounds he
holds that it would be a mistake to expel
South Africa, weakening the whites who are
working for a change of policy. In his view
it would also be against the interests of the
In addition to these revenues, the King had the
financial benefits of his position at the head
of the feudal system, as its chief landowner
and the recipient of the fines of royal justice.
It was, therefore, a complicated and not very
satisfactory financial system in which the
borders between private and public purse were
as ill-defined as the borders between private
and national war, and in which the comparati-
vely simple obligations of the feudal pyramid
In other ways, too, life for the ordinary
individual has become so complex
that it taxes the mind. Two hundred
years ago, men lived and worked
in one place, their lives were of one
piece. Now a man may live twenty,
thirty even sixty miles from his
work. The only connexion is the
pipeline of the railway on which they
Up and down the country husbands will be saying
they would never behave like that. But do they ever
ponder how their gardening tools are mysteriously
returned to the shed; their books tidied; and often,
even their shoes cleaned? How wonderful if they
showed their appreciation this morning with a surprise
box of chocolates or a bunch of flowers!
...Today A wonderful thought In the
dawn was given... And the thought
Was this: That a secret plan Is hid in
my hand; That my hand is big Big,
Because of the plan That God, Who
dwells in my hand, Knows this
secret plan, Of the things He will
do for the world Using my hand.
God grant, however, that I may be a false
prophet & that all may go well. Sir R. Peel
was here, I understand, but an express took
While he was in Naples there had opened a
new chapter in the history of Anglesey's
unceasing search for an effective alleviation
of his painful malady. None of the numer-
ous conventional remedies to which he had
been subjected ever since the symptoms
had first shown themselves seventeen years ..
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir Francis
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as
'more like a God upon earth than a human being',
had an increasing number of disciples among
unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe.
One of these was the Neapolitan, Dr Giuseppe Mauro,
whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834.
There they have stayed uselessly locked up because
Germany has no tradition of trading abroad. In addition
the strength of Germany's trading position has attracted
speculators to hold marks rather than pounds or dollars,
hoping for the mark to rise, as has now happened.
WILL the new valuation be enough to correct
Germany's massive trading surplus and choke
off speculation against dollar and pound?
Note that squared lines marking
the top member of the toe are
needed as well as the upper ex-
tent of the taper, and in
this case it is necessary to
mark in the line of the taper
with pencil and straight-edge
as at (B), Fig. 3. A saw cut is
made at the upper toe line
exactly down to the taper line,
The people - Langland's 'folk' and Gaunt's
'knaves' - were villeins still tied to the
feudal obligations of work or villeins who
had bought their release, free labourers
who worked for the highest bidders, free
yeomen who had prospered enough to become
successful farmers, the artisans, craftsmen,
journeymen and small tradesmen of the
towns, and the retainers and men-at-arms
in the pay of landed Lords.
We read, with sympathy, an advertisement in the
reign of Charles 2 stating: 'Lost: a lawn 1hand-
kercher with a broad hem laced round with
fine Point lace about four fingers broad' and
among the effects left by Nell Gwyn is an
unpaid bill for 'scarlet satin shoes with
silver lace'. The records of these tender trifles
are very touching but then lace does place
upon everything a delicate sentiment.
A reference to the reunification of Germany
brought a bark of "Start another war!"
from Mr. Ellis Smith (Lab., Stoke on Trent S.).
Then Mr. Healey launched out on his pet
theme of limitation of armaments in Europe.
This could, he suggested, be linked with
prohibition of the production of atomic
weapons in any part of Europe. Inspection
and control would be much easier to
establish in these territories.
He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's
alleged association with organisations black-
listed by the Government. Immediately
Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter to Senator
Robertson saying the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation had reported on Mr. Weaver.
He believed he would perform "outstanding
service" in his post. Senator Robertson's
committee has to pass Mr. Weaver's
nomination before it can be con-
# sidered by the full Senate.
Earl Russell, President of the Committee
of 100, told Kennedy that he should
take notice of "that very large and
growing section which is opposed to
the establishment of a Polaris base,
whether at Holy Loch or elsewhere on
British territory." He pointed out that
already there have been protests but
that "very much larger protests are to
be expected and are being planned."
Very soon we managed to get a hut in Purley where soldiers
were very welcome and the ladies organized a canteen. Life was
in those years more than busy. We now had a vicarage next
to the church, and I was most fortunate in having for eight
years a most able and devoted housekeeper whom I had known
well in Limpsfield where she had a house next to the
But in 1897, alas! there was no fingerprint bureau,
no experts to check and photograph any 'dabs' it
might have yielded. It was a tough case to
tackle, and Superintendent Robinson, of the L.S.W.R.
Police, and Chief Inspector Marshall, of Scotland
Yard, combined forces in the investigation. While
accepting the likelihood that Miss Camp had been
attacked for the sake of robbery, they did not
overlook the possibility that this might have
disguised another motive, and a thorough check
of her former men friends and acquaintances began.
But he said discussions "on a higher
level than in the past" might be
useful. The President will probably
discuss the problem with Dr. Brentano,
the West German Foreign Minister, who is
due in Washington next week. A big
slice of Germany's "aid" # is the early
payment of a 210million debt to America.
United States officials quickly point out
that this is money due to America
It was locked. Eager fingers felt bulky contents and
when he shook the case there was a rustling thud
of wads of paper. 'Cor!' he muttered aloud, 'there's
five thousand at least.' He felt in his jacket pocket
and pulled out a key ring. In succession he tried
his own briefcase key, a suitcase key and a
device designed to lock typewriters.
Mr. Brown, passionate and warm-hearted,
led Labour's attack on the higher health
charges. Mr. Powell, white-faced and
outwardly unemotional, replied with a
statistical statement - and ended by inciting
Labour M Ps to angry uproar. One dealt
with the human issue behind the Health
Service; the other tried to show that the
balance-sheet must always come first.
The Lord Provost, having studied the report on 'The Morale and
Health of Retired Workers', and being satisfied that the matters
raised were of considerable importance to the citizens of
Glasgow and warranted further study, set an informal
committee representative of bodies particularly concerned with
the welfare of older people to examine the report and
its implications and to consider the advisability of
arranging a Conference on Preparation for and
Occupational Activities on Retirement.
God grant, however, that I may be a false prophet
&; that all may go well. Sir R. Peel was
here, I understand, but an express took him off
While he was in Naples there had opened a new
chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing
search for an effective alleviation of his painful
malady. None of the numerous conventional
remedies to which he had been subjected ever
since the symptoms had first shown them-
selves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect.
Who will speak for Belgium? Who else but
Britain. We have fought beside Belgium
in two world wars. We are allies still.
Britain should champion Belgium. Not
with the careful, hooded language of diplomacy,
but boldly and fearlessly. It is time to
show the world that this country does not
desert her friends. HAPPY, happy
families! Never before have Britain's
larders been so well stocked.
Mr. Thorneycroft's main purpose will be to
remove these doubts, and to persuade the
Federal Government that the financial burden
involved is really worth while, at a time when
any increase in budgetary commitments
would almost certainly involve a corresponding
rise in taxation - something no one is prepared
to contemplate in an election year.
'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble! What infatuation!
Personally I am indifferent, but I really tremble for my country! I may
be mistaken, 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the
People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism, that the
Commons House upon a dissolution, which must be had, will be
a mass of Radicalism, &; then God knows what may happen....
At 9.40 Mr. Edusei, Minister of Transport and pro-
bably the toughest man in Mr. Nkrumah's team,
drove up to the Kingsway Stores and faced the
demonstrators, most of them shopgirls in overalls.
"If you have not dispersed by ten o'clock," he
told them, 'the police will act.' At five to ten
a posse of police arrived and in less than
two minutes the crowd had gone.
Booming Germany is deliberately encouraging more imports
as a means to curb rising prices at home. She is
also aware how # unpopular she has been growing
by failing until now to co-operate as a creditor nation
should. Germany exports much more than she imports.
For upwards of five years the world's reserves of
dollars have been drained into Germany.
He has earned his break. The film is a well-made
variation on that sinister yarn in which half the cast
try to persuade the heroine that she is out of her mind.
Despite flagrant cheating the eerie atmosphere is
built up neatly. Susan Strasberg is the crippled
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even today, in
the 1960s, no cure has been found for the
6tic douloureux. As early as 1830, when Anglesey
believed himself to be on the point of death,
the new German curative method known as
homoeopathy had been brought to his notice.
He may never have had the disease himself but he
can nevertheless identify it. Similarly the psychologist has
to be prepared to observe and make inferences about
all kinds of processes in other people, whether or not they
correspond with anything in his own experience. We know
very little about the patterns of brain-activity which
provide our schemas, nor do we need to know as far as
psychology is concerned - these patterns are the concern of
For we have always felt, even
if we have then by our practice
ignored it, the inconsistency
between support for the war
alliance, with resulting colossal
spending on armaments, and our
basic effort to improve living
standards. Instead, we saw the
Gaitskellites using the position
of organisational dominance
established during their years
On the Sunday, the day of her death, she had gone out in the
evening at about seven o'clock, telling her room-mate, Emma
Hone, that she was going for a walk, but would not be
gone for long. According to Miss Hone, she had not been
carrying a handbag, but she believed she had had a small
But he said discussions "on a higher
level than in the past" might be useful.
The President will probably discuss the
problem with Dr. Brentano, the West
German Foreign Minister, who is due in
Washington next week. A big slice of
Germany's "aid" is the early payment
of a 210million debt to America. United
States officials quickly point out that
this is money due to America anyway.
The housewife would find life far less tiring
if she made a list, followed a routine of work
rather than getting from one thing to the next.
The business man would find that he reached
the end of the day with far less strain if
he was a little more systematic. To drift
aimlessly along is more wearying than any-
thing else. If we would only sit down and
write out all the necessary jobs waiting to
be done and then work quietly through them,
we would find life considerably less exhausting
A pleasant life truly!... It so happens that I have an Italian
who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was.
But he has not one word of English.' While he was
writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs, and
the temporary assumption of the government by the
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law, the
diplomatist Lord Ponsonby, had written to advise Anglesey
to give the system a trial, adding that it was being
cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy,
and that he himself was being treated under a doctor
who had studied under its founder, the aged Dr. Samuel
me well meant, some mischievous, including one that a
man had been seen fleeing from Vauxhall station on
the Thursday evening, with blood actually dripping from
his hands. The inquest was opened on February 17, but,
beyond the jury hearing a formal identification of
the victim and inspecting at Waterloo the carriage
in which she had died, there was nothing on
which to proceed, and the inquest was
ALSO present is a London journalist who
arrived two hours earlier by appointment
to talk to the author of Borstal Boy and
The Hostage about his new work, if any,
and who is now being pluckily convivial
to fight off the frustration. The telephone
has rung a couple of times, calls from
other chums sniffing the wind and
offering to drop by for a chat.
The wish was particularly apparent in comments
on the occasion of the conference in Casablanca and,
in particular, in Yugoslav approval of the idea of an
inter-African consultative assembly which would
coordinate activity on the political and economic
sphere; and it is not difficult to see that President
Tito would like some such idea extended also
to the whole uncommitted world
Coming now to the actual tools and their cost, we begin
with what we have called a bare minimum kit. Probably
most men have some of the tools already. It will enable
a man to make simple, straight-forward things, and in
any case may be regarded as a good beginning to
which other tools can be added as the need arises. The
nature of the work will probably dictate the additions
to be made, but as a guide we have given a fuller kit
which increases the range of things that can be
At one point the astute Miss Cheesecake
had claimed tax relief on the pur-
chase of several mink coats which,
it seemed, were necessary to fur-
ther her career. Alternatively, it
was reported, she tearfully claimed
that the warm coats were heating
appliances and therefore susceptible
to a depreciation tax allowance
as plant and machinery. The
For his sake we chose the more
serious of the two films that were
showing in the little town. It was
about a good priest who helped cri-
minals in New York. His goodness, how-
ever, was not enough to prevent one
of them from being sent to the gas
chamber; and Philip and I waited with
Catherine in the dark until she had stopped
crying and could face the light of a golden
The "pot-au-feu" is as much a national institution
in France as is tea drinking among ourselves and it is
prepared at least once a week in every bourgeois
household. Thackeray, of course, waxed enthusiastic
about Bouillabaisse and sang - This Bouillabaisse a
noble dish is, A sort of soup, or broth, or brew,
A hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes That Greenwich
never could outdo; Green herbs, red peppers, mussels,
saffron, Soles, onions, garlic, roach and dace.
Our lawyers -" "Who are your lawyers?"
"Clacton's." "Well, I'm damned." "Now, let me see,
you say your husband earns about ... yes,
that would come to ... three, carry seven, six
nines are fifty four - of course we'd have to
have some sort of proof, you know, it's very
difficult with self-employed persons, carry two.
The more delicate patterns and finer
threads may be reserved to bring a light
and lovely touch to personal possessions -
a lace border to a handkerchief, fine-lace
insertion on a petticoat or blouse, a tatted edge
to a collar; these add a charming, feminine
distinction that nothing else can give.
Although we assess lace-making as one of
the feminine skills, a number of the well-loved
traditional patterns that we follow today were,
in fact, the brain-children of inventive men.
They are # quite useful for plants that are
despatched to market or direct to customers,
their cheapness making them attractive to the
nurseryman; there is also considerable saving
in carriage costs because of their lightness.
There are many types of plastic pots available;
some expensive, some quite cheap; some good
and others not so good. A wide range of
plants grow quite well in plastic pots and
usually need less water than those in clay
Beryl tried to suppress the thought that this was
precisely the remark she had made to Guy.
She said icily, "As you pride yourself on
your knowledge of all the affairs of the
island I needn't tell you that Sir John
Graybury is one of Mr. Hewson's most
important customers." "So what? You're not
trying to say that Hewson would victimise
Forrest for behaving with ordinary moral
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even today, in the
1960s, no cure has been found for the 6tic
douloureux. As early as 1830, when Anglesey believed
himself to be on the point of death, the new German
curative method known as homoeopathy had been
I could at once notice the great antagonism
between the Bavarians and the Prussians who openly
scorned these more simple country folk.
Avoid using lead-based paint as this could prove poisonous
if junior decides to bite the chair. Finally, it is as well
to cover the footrest with rubber or any such protective
material that might be available as otherwise the
paint would soon be scratched off.
(J.H.P.) BUILDING your own boat is a most
satisfying and worthwhile project.
assuredness "Bella Bella Marie" (Parlophone), a lively song that changes tempo mid-way.
I don't think he will storm the charts with this one, but it's a good start.
CHRIS CHARLES, 39, who lives in Stockton-on-Tees, is an accountant.
They obstructed every effort to fight for the
Scarborough decisions, while # scratching
around frantically to overturn them next
time. Confusion of the original issue
by misrepresentation of the decisions,
the introduction of a pseudo third way
and the call for party unity - in effect,
a demand that the movement unite
with the Gaitskellites on their policy
and no other seems to have done the
trick of moving a number of unions
When he saw Trelawny's printed letter, Lord Sidney wrote
to Douglas Kinnaird saying that it was incorrect
throughout. He had no sooner heard from Count Gamba
and Fletcher that Byron would have wished his
body to return to England than that course was
'immediately carried into effect' - not in spite of himself
and Sir Frederick Stoven, but with their perfect con-
currence, while 'General Adam was at Corfu the whole
time and # never interfered in the slightest
This indicated how ephemeral in the Church had
been the mood which produced the Black Rubric, for
it says that 'the Body and Blood of Christ, which are
verily and indeed taken and received by the
faithful in the Lord's Supper.' It could hardly be more
definite. It was at this time, too, that King James made
himself immortal by becoming associated with
a Bible translation - the Authorized Version
(which was never actually authorized!).
So far had our thinking led us in this matter of the
"Werewolves" that we had contemplated the necessity of very
special precautions to guard the lives of our airmen. Particular
hatred, we felt, was bound to be aimed at the representatives of
those who had, over the years, spread such ghastly havoc, destruction
and death over Germany, causing such wholesale slaughter among
men, women and children, old and young alike.
There was a front-page rear-attack on de
Gaulle, and the rest of the paper was given up
to murders, apart for an outcry against a
proposal to drop radio-active material into
the Mediterranean between Corsica and St
Raphael. All the murders were well documented
and had the air of being written by an
ingenious, but mad film director of the
Mr. William Lucas (Morris) is always insensi-
tively pushing, Miss Sheila Allen his wife,
always palely appealing, Mr. James Maxwell,
the editor, always comically abashed by the
events, and Mr. Aubrey Richards, the father-in-
law, always comically grotesque; they were
not asked to modulate from their set moods
but played with proper efficiency and, in
the case of Mr. Richards, with lavish and
"That's how I got into all this trouble."
"He's got to be 35," says Bobby Darin,
the chief spokesman of the jeans-and-
Jeep brigadiers as they're scheming to
get rid of old man, solid Rock. "How
many hills can he take?" Of course Mr.
Hudson can take one more hill than the
So the body of this small girl with the blue eyes and
long brown hair in a bun at the back of her head
remained a mystery until later the following day.
During that time a description of the girl was
circulated, and a Mr Robert Money came forward to
identify her as his sister, Mary Money, aged twenty-two.
The girl, who was described as being "always bright and
jolly," had been unmarried, and lived at Lavender Hill,
Clapham, on the premises of a dairyman, Bridger, for
whom she worked as a book-keeper.
IN 1913 Dr. Burge, Bishop of Southwark, asked me to go as
Vicar of St. Mark's, Woodcote, Purley, a new church built
by the well-known architect Mr. George Fellowes Prynne,
who was to become a very intimate friend, and I was
later on joint executor of his estate with his
solicitor cousin. As Bishop Talbot had told me that I
ought not to spend many years in Tatsfield, we held
Then the whole earth will be His Altar. "And it
shall come to pass, if 1ye shall 1hearken
diligently unto my commandments, which I command
you this day, to love the Lord your God, and to
serve Him with all your heart and with all
your soul." This may seem very good, but there
Ben Zoma said: "The days of 1thy life
means in the day-time; all the days of
1thy life means even at night-time."
(Berochoth.) And the Rabbis thought
it important that when we read the
Shmah "to be willing to hear," we
should remember the Great
Deliverance: Passover and its connection
with the fringes (the tsitsits).
As a result, the Glasgow Retirement Council came
into being in April, 1958, with Dr. Andrew Hood as
chairman and Mr. Andrew Atkinson as secretary. The
Council has active committees on Education and
Preparation for Retirement, and on Occupational
Centres. The former consists of representatives from
the Glasgow Corporation Further Education Department;
the Workers' Educational Association; the University
Extra-Mural Education Committee and departments
of psychology, education and social science; ....
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir
Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a
year or two later as 'more like a God
upon earth than a human being', had an
increasing number of disciples among
unorthodox medical men in the cities of
Europe. One of these was the Neapolitan,
Dr Giuseppe Mauro, whom Anglesey
consulted in May 1834.
Arguably, the dramatist has committed a
technical error in allowing Irene to speak for
herself; we would be altogether clearer in our
minds about her if she remained a flawed but
beautiful enigma, seen but not heard. However,
Miss Pinkie Johnstone makes her few brief scenes
effective, and Mr. Dinsdale Landen, in
the longest and most exacting role, that of the
sergeant, gives a performance of rare intelligence
Certainly, the rise is very small. But it is a step
in the direction of live-and-let-live. Hopes
will now grow brighter of further international
co-operation, which is the only way to solve the
payments difficulties that upset the Western world.
Britain and the U.S., which have problems with
their balances, will gain some immediate help.
What it means in practical terms is that our
exports to Germany will now be a little cheaper
for Germans to buy, while the goods which
Germany exports will be made a little dearer.
In Ghana, President Nkrumah, who
has done more than most to stir up
trouble in the Congo, orders every Belgian
citizen to quit his country. HOUNDING
Belgium has become an international
pastime. Why? Because those who
said the Congolese could govern themselves
will not admit they were wrong. So
Belgium, bowed down by internal
troubles, mourning a terrible air crash,
is made their scapegoat.
He's quite capable of telling Sir John to take
himself and his business to an unmention-
able destination." "There's a difference
between what a senior and a junior
partner can do," was her quick reply.
"What they can bring off! I'll admit that.
But Forrest might at least have tried. He's
The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's
play A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester
Square Theatre tomorrow. It has been produced
an directed by Mr. Tony Richardson, who is also
part-author with Miss Delaney of the script,
and the great advantages to be derived from
this unity of conception and control are
But both purse and ticket, and the packages, were gone when the body
was found at Waterloo. Neither the sisters nor Mr Berry thought it
likely that she had been carrying much money. A porter at Hounslow
supported the sister's statement that Elizabeth Camp had been alone in her
compartment when the train left, but this did not help much, since it
had made stops at nine stations before Waterloo.
It said that the President and Premier noted "with satisfaction" the
agreement in Vienna on the need for an effective Laos ceasefire,
which should lead to progress toward a Laos agreement at the
Geneva conference. "Particular attention was also given to the
nuclear tests conference and to the question of disarmament. "The
situation in regard to Germany was reviewed, and there was full
agreement on the necessity of maintaining the rights and
obligations of the allied Governments in Berlin."
God grant, however, that I may be a false prophet &; that all
may go well. Sir R. Peel was here, I understand, but an express
While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the
history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of
his painful malady. None of the numerous conventional remedies to
which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first
shown themselves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect.
Professor E. G. Turner is inclined to take the view that
the original of the Gospel would be unmarked. The
original of the Gospel, whether written on a roll or codex,
whether paragraphed or not, would be laid out in
columns. This is the invariable practice of ancient
manuscripts. A common size of column would hold
about one third of a page of Souter's print.
"Without Britain's tolerance German rearma-
ment in the air would be jeopardised." When
Hoesch's reports, along with other nazi documents,
were captured and published after the war the
pattern of British Government connivance became
clear. At nazi Germany's request, Britain was
providing the cloak for Germany to build an
air force bigger than that of France.
Sentence Database  C02-059
Prizes being what they are, Berlin is unusually
generous in giving everyone something, and silver
bears are awarded in every direction. Both the
Antonioni and Wicki films took high honours,
and the audience at the awards was particularly
enthusiastic when one Miss Anna Kerima was selected
as best actress for her work in the Godard
film. Gifted with an interesting face, although little
acting ability, she would seem to be well
worth watching in the months to come.
Mr. Harold Wilson, Shadow Chancellor, jumped up to
offer the Government an easy passage for such
legislation. "Why don't you make proposals to legislate
in the autumn?" Mr. Wilson asked. "We wouldn't call
it an Autumn Budget. You can call it a Taxation
Management Bill, if you like." While Mr. Wilson
was speaking, the Prime Minister and Mr. Lloyd
had a whispered conversation.
One more demonstration of the industry's recovery. As
springtime approaches, orders pick up. And the car men get
ready for another bustling season. The pessimists
said the motor industry was on its knees. The optimists
said "Nonsense." As usual, the optimists have been
proved right. EARL RUSSELL and his friends have
hit on an original way of spending this afternoon.
The result of the vote was not in
doubt. For the Tories were massed
in answer to their whips to defeat a
censure motion on the Government for
"undermining the Health Service" and
placing heavy burdens on those least
able to bear them. Mr. Brown
declared that the policy under censure
was monstrous. It had offended many
people far beyond the ranks of Labour
The new century opened with James 1 ascending
the throne. He was quite prepared to be
tolerant towards Rome though the Gunpowder Plot
spoiled that. The Puritans had high hopes, for
James had grown up in Presbyterian Scotland,
but those hopes were dashed. True, a new Prayer
Book was issued in 1604 but the Puritans
derived little comfort from it.
This is not a filmed play. It has been concei-
ved throughout in terms of the cinema,
and again and again it is the visual qualities
of the story, and the marriage of the
central characters to their background,
which bring the film so vividly to life. In
Fanny, which also has its premiere tomorrow,
the director, Mr. Joshua Logan, attempted
but failed to create the atmosphere of
There is a possibility that it will not be
settled at this conference. It may be agreed to
wait until South Africa actually becomes a
Republic later in the year. But if a final
decision is to be faced now, on which side
do the strongest arguments lie? THE Archbishop
of Capetown has shown that the matter is
"Of course you must count about two hundred
for legal charges and stamp duties,
maybe less, depending on the price of the
house, and whether it has been regis-
tered. I take it you have a mortgage lined
up, then, Mrs. - er - Buttery?" "Not yet,
but the bank would give me a loan, I'm
sure." "Er, yes. You have some securities,
then?"
The possibility that the Government might
invoke the Public Order Act, 1936, and
declare the whole rally illegal - whether
the demonstrators sit down or not - was
being discussed in Whitehall last night.
It was last used a year ago, to deal
with the St. Pancras rent riots. Today
Mr. Butler will have talks with Police
Commissioner Sir Joseph Simpson to
draw up final plans for the "Battle
of Parliament Square."
MR. IAIN MACLEOD, the Colonial Secretary,
denied in the Commons last night that
there have been secret negotiations on
Northern Rhodesia's future. The Northern
Rhodesia conference in London has been
boycotted by the two main settlers' parties -
the United Federal Party and the Dominion
Party. But representatives of Sir Roy
Welensky, Prime Minister of the Central
African Federation, went to Chequers at
the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan.
The Russians now realised its seriousness. The
French doubts were more about procedure
than about substance. The Prime Minister's
attitude of studied calm brought down the
temperature of the debate, which never
at any time rose to fever pitch, to a
remarkable degree of sub-normality.
Throughout Mr. Macmillan's speech the Earl
of Home, Foreign Secretary, was listening
in the Peers' Gallery.
The large attendance and atmosphere of
this Conference, held in October, 1957,
reflected not only an increasing awareness
of the problems of men and women nearing
or already in retirement but also a strong
desire on the part of all concerned for
concerted action towards preparing men
and women for life in retirement and more
adequate provision of facilities for
crafts, hobbies and leisure-time interests
for those who are retired.
(In this strike, as reported in the Sheffield
Guardian in March of that year, 1,000,000
men were out a fortnight, disciplined and solid,
when only 20 per cent of them stood to gain
anything from the strike and the other 80 per
cent made sacrifices for their fellow men;
this remarkable strike raised the question of a
living wage and showed the worth of the
By delicate application of odours and richly-distilled
perfumes, these refined voluptuaries aroused the
fainting appetite and added a more exquisite and
ethereal enjoyment to the grosser pleasures of the
board. The gratification of the sense of smelling
was a subject of no little importance to the Romans.
They considered flowers as forming a very essential
article in their festal preparations; and it is the
opinion of Bassius that at their desserts the
number of flowers far exceeded the number
Epicures and gourmands, sated by the
unending procession of dishes from those
mammoth kitchens of the 18th century -
that amazing epoch of grossness and
delicacy - sought inspiration at last from
the dishes of the country, and, instead
of gorging the eye with magnitude,
began to understand the value of
intelligent selection and comparative
simplicity, though nowadays their
simplified meals would seem quite
First launder crochet and then pin to the required
shape, ensuring that all lines of the crochet are
accurate. Place crochet in correct position on linen and
secure with pins. Run a line of basting stitches
on the linen following the outline of the crochet edges
which are to be attached to the linen. Remove crochet.
Soon a carnival springs up on the sight of
the missing building. The Church rebukes the
poor monk for his miracle, and as a
crowning indignity the night club is
given a gala society reopening on the
island. Father Malachias goes to the island,
prays, and in a second miracle the
night club is replaced in its original
In Chapter Two he gauged the nature of the heart's movements
from the dissection of living animals, showing how these move-
ments alternate with rests and are seen best in cold animals
or in flagging warmer ones. At the time of its movement
the heart becomes generally constricted, its walls thicken,
its ventricles decrease in volume and it expels its
content of blood, appearing paler in so doing in animals
such as serpents, frogs, and the like.
One of the students was young
George, and another the dark-haired
little granddaughter of Charlie Grant.
George often spoke at the Sunday school.
He christened the babies. Also, when
called upon to do so, he would officiate
at funerals. Religion was one of his pet
subjects, for being well acquainted
with the Bible, which he had
read in prison where it was the
only book they were allowed,
There they were, in fact, below us, eight of them.
Four of them were flattened on the window sills, two
immolated on a nearby roof top, the other pair copulating.
We had a morning at Pierre's. He talked about people.
Marc Chagall used to live here and an Englishman named
Lawrence. He was here, near the railway station, three or
four years. During this period he wrote a book,
Certainly teenagers earn more than ever before.
Certainly they spend more. But how splendid
that in the most prosperous days in this
country's history the old-fashioned virtue of thrift
should still have a powerful appeal for young
people. THE Danes are annoyed with British
farmers for fighting against Danish competition.
They say that our farmers do not seem to
understand the meaning of free trade.
When, however, the Greeks did learn the art of making
fireproof earthenware from the Egyptians, their cookery
made rapid progress, because they were men of taste
and intellect. A remarkable peculiarity in the banquets
of the ancient world was the fact that they did not
confine the resources of the table to the gratification
of one sense alone. Having exhausted their invention
in the preparation of stimulants for the palate,
they broke fresh ground and called another sense
The most convenient one for the authors
has been the text of A. Souter. In this
version of the text the Fourth Gospel is
printed as just over 1,000 different nouns,
verbs, and other parts of speech occurring
15,695 times in their different grammatical
forms. There are other texts which could
have been used, and (as shown in Table 1)
it is not a matter of the greatest importance
From being an assembler in an aircraft
factory to becoming a paint sprayer in
a ceramic factory, he can be qualified
for a completely new job in less time
than it takes to say "Tolpuddle
Martyrs!" "CRICKET," says the Oxford
Dictionary, is "an open air game played
with ball, bats and wickets between
# two sides consisting of eleven players
each." Not so, dear Oxford Dictionary.
Less than no response from the Russian side led
one to fear that the event might well have the
outcome that the Nazis evidently hoped might
lead to disaster. Then there had been much talk of
the setting up among the German population of a
general system of "francs-tireurs", to be named
The same man went to see Carlyle, and, after mentioning
that he had dined with Longfellow told the sage a
very funny story which made Carlyle absolutely laugh;
but all the Chelsea philosopher did in return was to
ask if his guest would have a cup of tea!
Long before polling closed at 8 p.m. it was
evident that voters were bored by the
Government's frequent appeals to the electorate.
The election was the fourth in four years.
In most constituencies it may go down as
the most apathetic in the country's history.
THE Prime Minister disclosed in the Commons
last night that he had considered early
in the Parliamentary recess whether to
mobilise reserves necessary to bring the
British Army of the Rhine on to a war footing.
His job is to build up the military apparatus which
will back West Germany's economic domination of Western
Europe through the Common Market. He continued this week
the argument with Mr. Watkinson which he had in public at a
Nato council meeting last year over the question: do we
fight a 30-day war or a 90-day war?
By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples.
He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his
health permitted him to enjoy anything. 'The Pearl', he
wrote, 'is arrived, which is a great resource. Vesuvius
seems to be tired; he is going out fast.... What a gay,
lively people, and what a busy town. At Rome, every
other man was a priest: here the priest is 1superceded by
the soldier - a favourable change in my eye, particularly
Everything is being done to promote
a new image. Certainly, he is now a
much lessly trounced by Mr. Diefen-
baker in the House in those early
days. It has been a hard road back
but now, with plenty of political
ammunition given him by the Gov-
ernment in recent sessions, he is
leading the Opposition with skill and
assurance and is a match for the
Prime Minister across the floor.
Mr. William Lucas (Morris) is always insensitively
pushing, Miss Sheila Allen his wife, always palely
appealing, Mr. James Maxwell, the editor, always
comically abashed by the events, and Mr. Aubrey
Richards, the father-in-law, always comically
grotesque; they were not asked to modulate from
their set moods but played with proper effi-
ciency and, in the case of Mr. Richards, with
lavish and suitably gaudy colour.
Who are they? The trade union officials of Britain.
Men who earn only a fraction of what their
talents and responsibilities could bring in the open
labour market. The unions are fortunate indeed to
find dedicated leaders at cut-rate prices. But it is
time the members decided to pay up and be good
employers. THE Labour Party says that the Tory
Government is destroying the social services.
The result of the vote was not in doubt.
For the Tories were massed in answer to
their whips to defeat a censure motion
on the Government for "undermining the
Health Service" and placing heavy burdens
on those least able to bear them. Mr.
Brown declared that the policy under
censure was monstrous. It had offended
many people far beyond the ranks of
Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Federation.
Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end meeting. But he told
M Ps yesterday: "I have no knowledge of secret negotiations."
He said Britain had an obligation to consult the Federal
Government. But the final decision remained with the British
Government. Mr. James Callaghan, Labour's Colonial spokesman,
said Sir Roy had no right to delay progress in the talks by
refusing to sit round the conference table.
Meanwhile in Purley there was much activity and much
co-operation especially with the other Christian communities.
At a large public meeting we launched the project known as the
'Coulsdon and Purley Patriotic Fund' in whose counsels and committees
I found myself deeply involved. At first, the main work was to help
wives and relations of the soldiers to get their 'Separation'
allowances, but soon, alas!, as casualties began and increased
in the winter of 1914 and 1915 the matter of War Pensions
became very urgent, and I was asked to be Chairman
of the Committee in Coulsdon and Purley.
This should strengthen the campaign to
end the manufacture and use of
nuclear weapons in Britain. Britain then
could play a leading and independent
role for an international agreement to ban
all nuclear strategy and weapons of mass
destruction, and lay the basis for real
peace and progress. WHEN all the
ballyhoo about Commonwealth Training
Week subsides it is doubtful whether more
than a handful of new apprenticeships
Between all the interested parties, the final
agreement had been delayed long enough for
Miss Cheesecake to spend all the money which
by rights should have been reserved for her tax.
Discounting one chinchilla jacket, a Rolls-
Royce and a Sussex manor house, all
three of which were in her husband's name,
she now declared herself bankrupt.
The evil that Byron did certainly lived after
him, and was even outmatched by the
mischief perpetrated by almost every person
who had been close to him. In turning over
the bones Doris Langley Moore has brought
to light a great deal of discreditable
behaviour and a vision of mischief-
making propensities of the leisured
classes in the early 19th century which
leaves one a little breathless.
Senator Allen Ellender, of Louisiana,
sparked off the opposition by telling a
television audience it was "current Washington
gossip" that Weaver once had Communist affilia-
tions. The Senate Banking Committee, which
is headed by another Southern Senator -
Willis Robertson, of Virginia - met today in
closed session to discuss Weaver's appointment.
Senator Robertson later disclosed he had sent a
letter to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received several
complaints about Weaver's loyalty.
The police began a systematic search of the line -
no easy task, but one in which patience and method
paid off. At a spot on the embankment between
Putney and Wandsworth they found a bloodstained
pestle such as chemists use, with some hairs
sticking to it. The murder weapon, more than likely,
and perhaps evidence enough to have brought a
To ridicule them only pushes them farther
into themselves, so that they become
unable to speak about it to anybody and
the seeds of any amount of trouble are sown,
the harvest of which may still be being
reaped at forty or fifty. Far better to
agree with a child that a particular
situation is frightening, and then to face
it together until the child can see how
unnecessary its fears were.
A Gardeners Chronicle reader living in
Grantham, Lincs, kindly offered to
cooperate with me in studying praying
mantis as a pest control in the cold
greenhouse. Of the dozen Spanish mantis
sent him by post on June 22, only two or
three survived the journey; one thrived
and the latest report I have is that
this mantis is still alive.
This remarkable man of medicine, whom Sir
Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a
year or two later as 'more like a God
upon earth than a human being', had
an increasing number of disciples among
unorthodox medical men in the cities
of Europe. One of these was the Neapolitan,
Dr Giuseppe Mauro, whom Anglesey
consulted in May 1834.
Mr. Healey denounced the Government for
using double standards. Ministers had
rebuked the unaligned nations for not
condemning the new Russian tests, but
they themselves had no condemnation for
events in Angola or Algeria. It was not for
the Government, said Mr. Healey, to
take up moral attitudes, "especially when
the temple of their religion is the
Behind Bonn's slogan of German self-
determination is the intention to impose
on East Germany the regime existing in
West Germany. REFUGEES are pouring out
# of East Germany into West
Berlin faster than ever. Mr. K's latest
speech scared 1,157 East Germans to
cross into West Berlin's reception centre
DURING MONDAY NIGHT. And officials
expect the total to leap to
The doorman turned his attention
to the next red-eyed emerger from the
dark; and we went on together to
the station, the children silent because
of the cruelty of the world. Finally Catherine
said, her eyes wet again: 'I think its all
absolutely beastly, and I can't bear to think
about it.' And Philip said: 'But we've got
to think about it, don't you see, because
if we don't it'll just go on and on, don't
Nobody's going to shove 2ole Uncle Sam around!" He then
took out a piece of paper, wrote his address on it and added:
"Anybody mucking the Yanks about had better call on me
first. I won't stand for it." Exit a puzzled American.
The other incident occurred in the boat-train from Cherbourg
According to Pliny, and others, certain herbs
and flowers proved of sovereign power
clarifying the functions of the brain. It
is said that there is nothing new under
the sun, but regarding foodstuffs the
traveller occasionally encounters a certain
measure of novelty.
Both her wrists bore the marks of severe bruising,
and there were other injuries on her body which had
occurred before her death was ensured by some
train which had roared through the tunnel. There were
no letters or papers found on her to assist identi
fication, no money, and no railway ticket. By then
reports were being gathered about all traffic over
this stretch of line, but no information was
forthcoming about any carriage with an open
door, nor any passenger reporting an incident
(Just how the seine ropes do this is not yet proved; it may
be by actual contact, or by sight reaction to the disturbed
sand; or even in the case of flat fish, by vibrations
through or along the bottom.) But given such a bow
wave of disturbance, it is obvious that without something
to overcome its effect, very few fish would be caught.
These support costs are a big drain on America's
dollar reserves. Dr. Adenauer's answer is the
once-and-for-all cash offer of 357million. President
Kennedy's rejection of it is a painful blow to the
West German Government. It will now have to pay
more - and increase taxation to do so - or
run the obvious risks in upsetting the new
They all had that neat look of
Mediterranean people to whom nothing
could ever happen, the chosen sane, the
uncuckolded, unrobbed, sheltered from
disease and accident by doctors, God and
the municipality. Yet, at any time now,
the bell would ring for them - the gilded
love house, the mad grandmother or the
bloody child at the crossroads.
"That cannot continue without either development
being limited or an adjustment being made
in financing." The Government decided to
adjust the financing - which Mr. Powell
claimed was underpinning - not undermining -
the service. Answering the attack on
"economic charges" for welfare foods, Mr.
Powell said that all these foods would
still be free in families receiving regular
National Assistance grants.
This seemed to infuriate Mr. Fell even more. "I cannot be told
to sit down by the Prime Minister." Protests had been expected
from Tory rebels. But Mr. Fell's attack was unprecedented. He
accused the Prime Minister of "political double talk." "It had
the effect on one former supporter that he now thinks this Prime
Minister is a national disaster," he said.
In those early years 1914-18, life was very full
both in the parish and in the wider war activities.
The Bishop, knowing that I spent my holidays in
Bavaria, asked me if I would do something for two wards
at the Royal Herbert Hospital, full of war prisoners.
I was very glad to help in this way, and visited them
frequently, establishing at once a friendly contact with
the Bavarian wounded who were delighted to find
someone who knew their native villages.
True, he did tell the House that the
Government had asked the Medical Research
Council to reassess the fall-out position in
view of the Russian tests, and said that
the council's findings would be published.
He was not so happy in his defence of
the Government's failure to condemn
France for her nuclear tests in the
Sahara on the grounds that they were
A pleasant life truly!... It so happens that I
have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet
de Chambre that ever was. But he has not
one word of English.' While he was writing
this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs, and the
temporary assumption of the government by
All four were Conservative strongholds. Last September
a public poll showed that for the first time since
the Administration came to power in 1957 the
Liberals were ahead (43 per cent were in favour
of "The Grits" if a federal election had been
held last autumn, 38 per cent for the
Conservatives and 12 per cent for the C.C.F.).
2e-and-nightie ensembles not too well designed for sleeping in,
and Rock Hudson at the wheel of a shining silver Rolls-Royce.
Mr. Hudson is an American millionaire who spends each
September in his Italian villa and the company of Signorina
Lollobrigida. In the holiday seasonal months before and
after this annual idyll his major-domo (Walter Slezak
at his most nauseating) turns the palazzo into a luxury
The joint evidence of echo-sounders
and fishing gear leads to an overall
though somewhat dim picture.
The details are harder still to see.
Drift Effects. At East Anglia, for instance,
shoals that gather at the Knoll or
other banks are most of them
going to travel a hundred
miles farther south before they
spawn. Some will spawn at the
6al view; good intimate furnishing and colour; running
hot water from Butagas installation for washing-up,
basin and bidet; own private, modern lavatory. The
first night's sleeping was like a long convalescence.
We were woken up twice about dawn by a soft
Most MPs agreed that Mr. Fell's attack had, if
anything, rallied support to the Prime Minister.
This apparently, was Mr. Macmillan's assessment.
He confined his reply to the observation
that Mr. Fell had probably "maximised his
support." There were no other attacks
of such ferocity. But there was ample
evidence of Conservative and Labour
opposition, which will be aired in the
debate tomorrow and on Thursday.
We also had a little Mission Hall leading off
the Brighton Road, in a street full of small houses.
This was called Ellen Avenue when I first went
there, but was soon changed into the better-
sounding name of Lansdowne Road. There
were lots of children there, and we had
a flourishing Sunday School and an evening
service. I soon saw that the parish needed
more help both at the church and Mission
Mr. Brown, passionate and warm-hearted, led
Labour's attack on the higher health
charges. Mr. Powell, white-faced and outwardly
unemotional, replied with a statistical state-
ment - and ended by inciting Labour M Ps
to angry uproar. One dealt with the human
issue behind the Health Service; the other
tried to show that the balance-sheet must
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken a
town in the industrial North of England and
has made it live. The shabby streets and wet pavements,
the school play-grounds, the public monuments and
the rubbish strewn canals - even the worn
head-stones in the churchyard, "sacred to the
memory of" - are seen as an integral part of
God grant, however, that I may be a
false prophet &; that all may go well.
Sir R. Peel was here, I understand, but
an express took him off yesterday.'
While he was in Naples there had opened
a new chapter in the history of
Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective
alleviation of his painful malady. None
of the numerous conventional remedies
to which he had been subjected ever
Say Granada T V, the producers: "We decided to make
the switch because of the topicality of African
affairs. The Wesker interview will be seen at a later
date." ACTOR Tom Courtenay was an outstanding
success last night in I T V's "Private Potter," his
first big T V part. The play was a brilliantly-written
essay on soldiering which stated that a fighting
man could only be regarded as a machine.
In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended
by an old man. Here it is a young homo-
sexual, estranged from women but yet moved
by a strong maternal instinct to the unborn
child as much as to the expectant mother,
who acts as a protector and comforter to
her in her hour of need. He shares her room
and gives her his forlorn gift of com-
panionship and sympathy - "you need someone
to love you while you are looking for
Among the natives of Northern Australia lizards
roasted on the point of a spear are
definitely a delicacy while Mediterranean
peoples have a high opinion of the octopus
as an article of diet. So have the Japanese
and the Chinese. The Celestials, apart
from eating it fresh, squash it, press
it and dry it, in which form, dusted
over with flour, you will find a stack
of it in almost any provision shop.
Cecil searched in his pockets once
more and came up with two
paper-clips. After a few seconds
of twisting, he roughly thrust a
bent wire loop into the lock and
waggled it around vigorously.
There was a click and the
briefcase opened. Cecil thrust an
eager hand inside, his fingers
groping after wads of five
Nor is this to be wondered at, for even today, in the
1960s, no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux.
As early as 1830, when Anglesey believed himself to be
on the point of death, the new German curative method
known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice.
Mr. Iain Macleod, the Colonial Secretary, denied
in the Commons last night that there have
been secret negotiations on the Northern Rhodesia's
future. The Northern Rhodesia conference in
London has been boycotted by the two main
settlers' parties - the United Federal Party
and the Dominion Party. But representatives
of Sir Roy Welensky, Prime Minister of the
Central African Federation, went to Chequers
at the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan.
Can it be shown that the one scale is demon-
strably better than the other? The centigraders may
be in for a stiffer fight than they think. They may
have to call up the reinforcement of the Common Market.
Even then it might be easier to persuade the British
public to go over to decimal coinage - in certain
circumstances the time would come when this would
suit their convenience - rather than to change their
system of recording temperatures.
The trouble about such debates is that
they range too widely. They remind one of
the Rugby match in "Tom Brown's Schooldays,"
in which all the boys were welcome to
take part, and only those who "really meant
business" removed their jackets. Not many
metaphorical braces were visible in the
early stages of to-night's debate. Mr.
Healey had another tilt at the Prime Minister's
golf-course Press conference, which he
described as "a display of flabby and
The Church Army Captain had done very good work in the
Lansdowne Road district, but I needed more help in the
church for the full rota of services on Sundays and weekdays.
Most fortunately I was able to engage the Rev. E. U. Evitt in
1913 soon after I had come, and he organized the Mission
district and got to know, and be known by, many of
When the final miracle does occur, it is accepted as a
marvellous joke; no one has learned anything. Wicki
suddenly returns to the city for a final epilogue. In
complete silence he shows the faces of people
walking in the streets, smug, content, satisfied,
and thoroughly frightening. Wicki has
succeeded in his second film in
recording his personal apocalypse of the
last days of a sick society.
When the sailing season was past, he sent Pearl back
to England, and returned to Rome for the winter. In
late November, he was 'suffering as usual', but hoped,
he told Arthur, 'to find this place agree with
me better than Naples. The journey has been
against me, as there has been much rain and damp,
but the temperature is high & I have not
A 90-day war, the West German
view, provides the pretext for huge
German armed forces (within Nato
of course) and for those to have
bases all over Western Europe.
In the past year West Germany
has secured agreements for
"facilities" in France, Holland and
Belgium. After much bargaining
the British Government has
agreed to give similar "facilities"
JOHN DICKIE writes: Mr. Macmillan gave top
priority to the clash over Northern Rhodesia on his
return from Scotland yesterday. He summoned Mr.
Iain Macleod, Colonial Secretary, and Mr. Duncan Sandys,
Commonwealth Relations Secretary for an hour's talks
at Admiralty House. A statement is expected today
to hold the door open for modifications to the
new Constitution provided law and order is maintained
Informal talks at Lancaster House will
resume today. President Kennedy today
defended the appointment of a Negro as
his Housing Minister. It has aroused
strong opposition from the anti-Negro
senators of the Deep South. The negro
is Mr. Robert Weaver of New York. One
of his tasks will be to see there is no
racial discrimination in Government
and State housing projects.
It was growing cold. We left the
crowd and drove back to Vence.
The cool evening perfumes stood
beckoning at the corners of the roads.
Mart is unable to smell (her sense
organs were impaired years ago), and
I had to explain the low, sharp and
sweet signals in the air. When we
got back home we felt exhausted.
London sickness (a sense of guilt,
mingled with the memory of sandwiches
But the Queen and the Duke have pleased millions by
their visit. The warmth of their welcome in India and
Pakistan are happy memories. WEST GERMANY - followed
yesterday by the Dutch - has made the gesture
of a good neighbour. She has put up the value
Meanwhile Mr. Moncrieff had sent me an
egg-case of the Chinese mantis. The
first mantis had hatched from the very large
egg-case on June 6. Both the Chinese
and Spanish mantis, in the young stage
at any rate, are light brown in colour.
Because of the cool, wet weather, I had great
difficulty in breeding fruit flies and, after
many of the mantis of both types had died
in my Kilner jars, I poured living mantis
over vines and peachtrees.
Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Fede-
ration. Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end
meeting. But he told M Ps yesterday: "I
have no knowledge of secret negotiations." He
said Britain had an obligation to consult
the Federal Government. Mr. James Callaghan,
Labour's Colonial spokesman, said Sir Roy had
no right to delay progress in the talks by
refusing to sit round the conference table.
"I feel I've done all I can at the B B C," he
told me. "We mutually agreed to part."
Escapologist Dill-Russell is a guest in Harbin's
show tonight. Boxing fans can see an eight-round
feather-weight contest between Chris Elliot and
Harry Carroll from Leicester (B B C, 8.25). A
SONGS-OF-BRITAIN medley is sung by David
Hughes in his "Make Mine Music" (B B C, 9.30 p.m.).
"Yes, well...." He judged that she had been sufficiently
dazzled and gave a long raucous cough. "Only
cigarettes worth smoking, these. Most unhealthy, English
ones. Well, now, let me see. I think I can put you onto
some people who might, I say might, let you have a mortgage on
this property...." "But, they're safe, are they? I mean,
they're not - money-lenders?" "Mrs. - er - Buttery,
all mortgage companies are money-lenders.
If the threatened "counter-revolution" was not * to bring
the President back from his travels it might have been
thought that the muster from the 13 States of the
Commonwealth was an occasion worthy of his presence.
After all it was Mr. Nkrumah who suggested that this
year the Economic Consultative Council should meet
The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's play
A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester Square
Theatre tomorrow. It has been produced and
directed by Mr. Tony Richardson, who is also part-
author with Miss Delaney of the script, and
the great advantages to be derived from this
unity of conception and control are everywhere
In 1950 he began to take photographs not
only in Germany but also in Africa and
America. An exhibition of these works which
is now on view in a Berlin gallery is most im-
pressive. As Friedrich Du"rrenmatt, the Swiss
playwright and author, wrote: "Wicki's blacks
and greys are not only the colours of the
lost and the forgotten, but they are also the
technical means of abstraction.
(3) I will redeem you. (4) I will take you to me for a
people. (1) I will bring you out from under the
burdens of Egypt: How was it that Israel was
brought out from under the burdens of Egypt?
Because, they kept the Passover and they were
eating Matzos in Egypt and the "Feast of Matzos"
was known even to Abraham and Lot.
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law,
the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby, had written to advise
Anglesey to give the system a trial, adding that it
was being cultivated with extraordinary success in
France and Italy, and that he himself was being
treated under a doctor who had studied under
its founder, the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann.
Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly
effective, giving full value to the formal elements
of Betti's writing without over-emphasizing
them. Last night's play in the "Play of the
Week" series on independent television, Then We
Fall, by Mr. Paul Ferris, was a morality on
the not unfamiliar theme of the destructive
power of unbridled ambition.
On hearing that I was to leave Tatsfield and come to
Purley she offered to come and look after me. She was
a real treasure, of yeoman stock and clever in all domestic
things, a widow who knew how to look after the 'boy,'
who was the only other occupant of the house when
'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble! What
infatuation! Personally I am indifferent, but I really
tremble for my country! I may be mistaken, 1tho'
I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People
will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism,
that the Commons House upon a dissolution, which must
be had, will be a mass of Radicalism, &; then God
A fascinating study also opens up in
the dietary welcomed by men of genius
as well as the foods for which they have
had an aversion. Shelley, for example,
had a great contempt for animal
food, believing that it impaired the
intellectual faculties. Bunyan's break-
fast and supper consisted of a
piece of coarse bread and a
He was announcing his executive's rejection of the ultimatum to the
ETU. In reply to the call for his resignation he said: "Our rules
say that if an official resigns he is not allowed to run again
for three years. "I have only 2 1/2 years to go before I retire,
so this is an invitation from my good friends of the TUC that
'What a frightful event!' he wrote. 'I tremble! What
infatuation! Personally I am indifferent, but I
really tremble for my country! I may be mistaken,
1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of
the People will be so great at the return of
Ultratoryism, that the Commons House upon a
dissolution, which must be had, will be a
mass of Radicalism, & then God knows
I suggested to the congregation that it needed
warming up by constant prayer and worship, and we
found many to help. Gifts of candlesticks and
stained-glass lancet windows - finally a new altar -
helped to furnish the chapel as a little sanctuary
for prayer and quiet. In time we received similar
gifts for the High Altar, and large East and West
THE Marriage-Go-Round (Carlton)
is also a comedy of manners,
but fun-films toting an X
certificate have to keep a sharp
look-out that the jokes about
sex (what else would they joke
about with an X?) are of the witty,
verbal variety and not the visual
slapstick. This has only one gag -
that of the entry of a gladiator
Prince Souvanna Phouma has not yet replied to
the mission, but recent statements made by him
in Phnom Penh indicate that he still regards
himself as the only legal Prime Minister of
Laos. His policy of strict neutrality from 1951
to 1958 kept the kingdom in peace, though
at the cost of virtual partition of the country
into the pro-communist north and the
pro-western centre and south.
Prince Souvanna's former Minister of
Information, Mr. Quinim Pholsena, who
claims to be his representative in
Laos, yesterday addressed all officers
of the pro-communist forces
occupying the province of Xieng
Khouang and emphasized that
Prince Souphannouvong, leader
of the pro-communist Neo Lao
Haksat Party, also to the officers
in the same terms.
Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly
effective, giving full value to the formal elements
of Betti's writing without over-emphasizing
them. Last night's play in the "Play of the
Week" series on independent television, Then
We Fall, by Mr. Paul Ferris, was a morality
on the not unfamiliar theme of the destructive
power of unbridled ambition.
There was no abatement in political
work. The British Socialist Party endea-
voured to get more socialist members sent to the
Council, and to Parliament, being deter-
mined and obdurate in their attitude that
their candidate must go forward in the
elections. In the Sheffield Trades and Labour
Council meeting on October 16, 1912, George
had said, 'Mr. Barton would go to the poll.
Just as the Labour Party had fought the
Liberals, they were going to fight the Labour
Mr. Pearson is now talking about "his
new and dynamic liberalism" and this
week will # show perhaps how far "Mike
will go. The main topic under review is
unemployment, but there will be 21
committees examining subjects
ranging from foreign investment in
Canada to the problems of the Atlantic
provinces. However, be this election
year or not, Mr. Pearson, with his party
increasingly confident of return to power,
'What have we here? A new briefcase! So THAT'S
what it's all about.' Cecil halted in
mid-step near the top of the stairs and
clenched his fists. 'So that's what
What's all about?' he hissed without
turning round. She pointed to the
briefcase. 'So that's why you are so
irritable. You thought that I'd think
you'd been extravagant.'
By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples. He
told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted
him to enjoy anything. 'The Pearl', he wrote, 'is arrived, which is
a great resource. Vesuvius seems to be tired; he is going out
fast.... What a gay, lively people, and what a busy town. At
Rome, every other man was a priest: here the priest is 1superceded
by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye, particularly as
The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's
play A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester
Square Theatre tomorrow. It has been pro-
duced and directed by Mr. Tony Richardson,
who is also part-author with Miss Delaney
of the script, and the great advantages to
be derived from this unity of conception and
control are everywhere apparent.
Amen. MOST people would probably regard tiredness as a
purely physical thing. The cure for which is sleep. This is only
partly true. Many people wake up tired of a morning and no
amount of rest seems to make any difference. Sleep, to be
effective, must be of that child-like quality which comes
At first sight the difference between
Souter and the other texts is rather
large. But the British text includes
the paragraph 7.53-8.11, the Woman
taken in Adultery, and this accounts
for 178 words out of 279, which is
the difference between the 15,695 words
of Souter's text and the 15,416 of Nestle's.
The omission or inclusion of this paragraph
is a matter of editorial decision rather
To Germany's Western allies the campaign has been a
millstone weighing down and almost paralysing their
efforts to work out sensible ways of dealing with
the Berlin crisis. It need not have been such a burden
if Western Governments had not been convinced
that they must do nothing to harm even remotely Dr
Adenauer's chances of being returned as Chancellor.
A CURIOUS advertisement on page nine, paid
for by that curious body Moral Re-Armament.
Those who lend their names to this kind of
advertisement are worthy people, a little innocent
of politics, perhaps, or carried away by the
idea that moral regeneration would solve
all our problems. So it would. While we are
waiting for the millenium, however, most of us
would prefer to put our hopes for earthly justice in
instruments of democracy, such as trade unions
and our local and national Parliaments.
